Elections to appoint the 234 members of the 17th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, the highest body of the Government of Tamil Nadu, were held on 23 April 2026. The results were declared on 4 May 2026 by the Election Commission of India. It recorded the highest voter turnout in the state's history (85.1%). The new party Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK), founded by Tamil actor C. Joseph Vijay, won in its first-ever election and ended a 59-year streak of dominance of Dravidian parties in the state.
The TVK contested alone in 233 constituencies. It positioned itself as a rival to the oscillating duopoly of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), and an ideological opponent of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the ruling party of the Government of India. The incumbent DMK led the Secular Progressive Alliance (SPA), which was part of the Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance led by the Lok Sabha opposition, the Indian National Congress (INC); the SPA swept all the 39 seats in the state in the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The opposition AIADMK was part of the BJP's National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Opinion poll agencies projected a second consecutive term for the DMK or a return to power for the AIADMK. In an upset result, the TVK emerged as the single largest party above the DMK and AIADMK, amassing 108 seats but short of majority (118). The SPA was reduced to 73 seats, with the DMK securing 59 and the INC five. The NDA won 53 seats, with the AIADMK securing 47 and the BJP only one. This created Tamil Nadu's first hung assembly. The AIADMK lost its official opposition status to the DMK.
This election marked the first time a non-Dravidian party emerged as the largest party in the assembly since the 1960s, breaking a tradition of power alternating between the DMK and the AIADMK. The outgoing Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, M. K. Stalin of the DMK, lost his election from the Kolathur constituency where he had previously won thrice consecutively. The TVK's chief-ministerial candidate Vijay won both the Perambur and Tiruchirappalli East constituencies he contested. The AIADMK's former Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, retained Edappadi with the widest winning margin in the state. On 5 May 2026, Stalin resigned as Chief Minister. The next few days, Vijay met the Governor of Tamil Nadu, Rajendra Arlekar, multiple times to stake claim to the formation of the new government, resulting in tensions and uncertainty. Vijay pursued a majority by inviting SPA parties other than DMK to render their support; INC left the SPA and joined the TVK government, while four other SPA parties extended their support to a TVK-led coalition government without leaving the alliance. Upon confirming a majority to Arlekar, Vijay was sworn in as Chief Minister on 10 May 2026. His government passed the floor test on 13 May.
Political critics and journalists stated that the anti-incumbency against the DMK government, Vijay's mobilization of his fanclubs into an unified party, TVK's well-funded and highly organized digital campaign portraying itself as a fresh, corruption-free alternative as opposed to the perceived fatigue over the Dravidian tenures as major factors that fueled Vijay's success, drawing comparisons with former actor-turned-Chief Ministers M. G. Ramachandran and J. Jayalalithaa. Analysts reported that TVK hauled the votebanks of both the DMK and AIADMK, pulling their youth, women, urban, and first-time voters irrespective of caste or religious affiliations, and attributed Vijay's appeal more to a promise of change rather than a meticulous ideology. According to a BBC article, BBC described TVK winning 108 seats in the 2026 Tamil Nadu Assembly election as “probably the first election in India won almost entirely with the help of social media. 


== Background ==
Elections to state legislative assemblies in India are usually held once in five years, and the members of the legislative assembly are directly elected to serve five year terms from single-member constituencies. The previous assembly elections were held in April 2021 to elect the 234 members of the 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly, and the tenure of the assembly ends on 10 May 2026. In the previous election, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led Secular Progressive Alliance (SPA) formed the state government after winning 159 of the 234 seats, and M. K. Stalin sworn in as the chief minister. The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which won 66 seats, became the principal opposition party and its leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was elected and served as the leader of the opposition.
In June 2022, three members–O. Panneerselvam, P. H. Manoj Pandian, and R. Vaithilingam were expelled from the AIADMK. In August 2022, P. Ayyappan of the AIADMK also joined the expelled faction. K. A. Sengottaiyan was expelled from AIADMK in October 2025, and subsequently resigned from his position as a member of the assembly in November 2025. Manoj Pandian resigned as a member of the assembly in November 2025 and joined the DMK, with Vaithilingam following suit in January 2026. In late 2025, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) split into two factions, with three members expressing support to Anbumani Ramadoss and two members supporting S. Ramadoss. After Anbumani was recognised as the official leader of the PMK, Ramadoss formed a splinter faction of the PMK. Two members–T. K. Amulkandasami (AIADMK) and K. Ponnusamy (DMK) died on 21 June 2025 and 23 October 2025 respectively. On 27 February 2026, Pannerselvam and Ayyappan resigned from the assembly and joined the DMK.


== Schedule ==
The Election Commission of India announced the schedule for the election on 15 March 2026.


== Parties and alliances ==


=== Secular Progressive Alliance ===

On 9 March 2024, Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam joined the Secular Progressive Alliance (SPA). Parties which formed part of the DMK-led alliance –Indian National Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, that won all the 39 seats in the state in the 2024 general election, remained with the alliance despite emerging strains during subsequent seat-sharing negotiations.
On 19 February 2026, the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam joined the DMK-led alliance. On 22 March 2026, T. Velmurugan-led Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi withdrew its support to the DMK-led SPA. On 24 March 2026, Haasan announced that the Makkal Needhi Maiam would not contest the election, and would extended its support to the alliance. On 28 March 2026, DMK president Stalin released the party's candidate list for the assembly elections. The Congress released its list of candidates on 3 April 2026.


=== AIADMK-led Alliance ===

On 25 September 2023, the AIADMK withdrew from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the 2024 general election, the AIADMK-led Alliance and the BJP-led NDA contested separately and both did not win any seat in the state. On 11 April 2025, both the parties reunited to form an alliance, with Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate. On 7 January 2026, the PMK, led by Anbumani, formally joined the AIADMK-led front. On 21 January 2026, T. T. V. Dhinakaran–led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) joined the alliance.
On 15 March 2026, the AIADMK constituted a four-member committee to hold consultations with its allies for seat sharing. On 23 March 2026, the AIADMK announced that it had finalised seat-sharing agreements with its principle allies, BJP, PMK and AMMK. On 25 March 2026, AIADMK released its first list of 23 candidates. The party released its second list, comprising 127 candidates on 27 March, and the final list of 17 candidates on 29 March 2026. On 30 March 2026, the PMK released the list of its candidates for the polls. The BJP released its list of candidates on 3 April 2026.


=== Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam ===
On 2 February 2024, actor C. Joseph Vijay announced the formation of his political party, Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK), stating that it would contest the 2026 elections. On 18 March 2026, Vijay announced that the TVK will contest solo in all the 234 constituencies, and announced all the candidate list on 29 March 2026.


=== AJPK–AIPTMMK Alliance ===
On 20 March 2026, the Ramadoss-led faction of the PMK, joined hands with All India Puratchi Thalaivar Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by V. K. Sasikala, to contest the assembly elections. On 30 March 2026, Ramadoss released first list of five candidates and Sasikala released a list of 21 candidates. On 31 March 2026, PMK(R) released a second list of candidates for ten constituencies. On 31 March 2026, AIPMMK released a second list of 38 candidates. On 1 April, Sasikala released a third list of five candidates. On 2 April, Ramadoss released the third and fourth list of ten and eight candidates respectively. On 4 April 2026, Sasikala released a fourth list of nine candidates.


=== Others ===
In February 2026, Naam Tamilar Katchi released its list of 234 candidates for the polls. Puthiya Tamilagam released its first list of 43 candidates for the elections on 29 March 2026, and followed it up with a second list of 27 candidates on the next day.
In February 2025, All India N. R. Congress, the ruling party in the nearby union territory of Puducherry announced its intention to contest in the Tamil Nadu state elections.


=== Party-wise contest ===
Note: As per the party of the official symbol on which candidates contested.

As per the Election Commission, 4,023 candidates contested across the 234 constituencies in the state. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms, 404 out of the 722 candidates representing the major political parties had serious criminal cases pending them. Amongst these, 60 out of 170 candidates (35.3%) from the AIADMK, 43 out of 231 (18.6%) from the TVK, 32 out of 175 (18.3%) from the DMK, nine out of 33 (27.3%) from the BJP, five out of 28 (17.9%) from the Congress, six out of 18 (33.3%) from the PMK, one each from the DMDK and CPI declared serious criminal cases in their affidavits.


== Candidates ==


== Campaign ==
Following an order of the Madras High Court, the Government of Tamil Nadu announced new rules and guidelines for political rallies in the state in January 2026.


=== Secular Progressive Alliance ===
On 1 June 2025, DMK president Stalin launched "Oraniyil Tamil Nadu" (Tamil Nadu as one team), an enrollment drive to add new party members and urged the party cadres to enroll at least 30% of voters in each polling booth to the party through a door-to-door outreach. On 24 March, the party released a song for its campaign with the theme "Stalin Thodarattum, Tamil Nadu Vellattum" (let Stalin continue, let Tamil Nadu triumph).

Manifesto
On 29 March 2026, Stalin released the party's manifesto for the elections. It promised ₹8,000 (US$83) coupons for non–income tax-paying homemakers to purchase household appliances, extension of the chief minister's breakfast scheme in government schools till class eight, free laptops to all government college students, enhancement of the monthly entitlement for women to ₹2,000 (US$21), increase in old-age pension from ₹1,200 (US$13) to ₹2,000 (US$21), and provision of ₹2,500 (US$26) for persons with disabilities. It also proposed expanding coverage under the state government insurance scheme to ₹1.5 million (US$16,000) and construction of a million houses for the poor. Other proposals included the procurement of 10,000 new buses, development of high-quality bus shelters, introduction of mini-bus services in remote areas, expansion of Coimbatore International Airport,  establishment of a cargo terminal at Thoothukudi Airport, ₹100 billion (US$1.0 billion) for beautification of roads and parks in urban areas, and establishment of future-ready global cities near major cities. The party proposed to attract foreign investment of about ₹1,800 trillion (US$19 trillion), and creation of employment opportunities for five million youth. In the agriculture sector, it included provision for distribution of free pump sets to two million farmers, increase in procurement price of paddy and sugarcane, raising milk procurement price by ₹5 (5.2¢ US) per litre, desilting of 15,500 km of irrigation canals, and financial assistance to fishermen during fishing ban and low-catch periods. It also proposed interest-free loans up to ₹0.5 million (US$5,200) for self-help groups, establishment of a library to promote awareness of the anti-Hindi imposition movement, and introduction of capital punishment for crimes against children below eight years of age.


=== AIADMK-led Alliance ===
On 7 July 2025, AIADMK general secretary Palaniswami launched a statewide campaign with the slogan "Makkalai Kaappom, Thamizhagathai Meetpom" (let's protect the people, let's save Tamil Nadu).

Manifesto
On 24 March 2026, AIADMK general secretary Palaniswami released the party's election manifesto, which contained 297 promises. The manifesto proposed a range of welfare and economic measures, including a monthly assistance of ₹2,000 (US$21) for women, a ₹10,000 (US$100) relief payment per family to address rising prices, monthly assistance of ₹2,000 (US$21) for unemployed graduates, subsidiary of ₹25,000 (US$260) for working women to buy two-wheelers, and an increase in pension benefits to ₹2,000 (US$21) for senior citizens. It also proposed waiver of education and crop loans, provision of free refrigerators to poor families, three free LPG cylinders per year, and extension of free travel in local government buses to men. The party further proposed the increase of mandatory work days from 100 to 150 days under the rural employment scheme, increase of quota for government school students to 10% in government medical colleges and full coverage of major medical expenses for major treatments for state insurance holders. Additional measures included subsidies for solar power installations, revival of the marriage assistance scheme, expansion of subsidised government clinics, implementation of prohibition by closing liquor shops in phases, higher minimum support prices for paddy and sugarcane, and provision of free pulses and cooking oil through the Public Distribution System.


=== Naam Tamilar Katchi ===
On 22 March 2026, the NTK announced the first phase of its election campaign schedule, stating that the party's chief coordinator, Seeman, would address nine public meetings by the end of March 2026.

Manifesto
On 27 March 2026, Seeman released the party's election manifesto, which included administrative reforms such as the creation of multiple functional capitals for the state, equal representation for women in legislative bodies, and fair pricing for farmers and fishermen, and other welfare schemes. It also proposed plans for the conservation of natural resources, food security, waste management, climate change and sustainability.


=== Tamilaga Vetri Kazhagam ===
On 13 September 2025, TVK president Vijay launched his party's election campaign in Tiruchirappalli, with subsequent rallies planned on weekends. However, following a crowd crush that resulted in the deaths of 41 people and injuries to 80-120 others, during a political rally hosted by TVK in Karur, he suspended the campaign temporarily. During the campaigning, Adhav Arjuna, the general secretary of the TVK, made controversial remarks about actor Rajinikanth, which criticism from politicians and public. Vijay started his campaign for the elections on 30 March 2026, after filing his nomination to contest the elections from the Perambur Assembly constituency.

Manifesto
On 29 March 2026, Vijay released the manifesto for the elections. The TVK manifesto promised drug free state, job assurance to youth, collateral-free education and startup loans, and monthly financial assistance to students.


== Surveys and polls ==


=== Opinion polls ===


=== Exit polls ===
The Election Commission had banned the publication of any exit poll from 7 am on 9 April until 6.30 pm on 29 April to prevent any influence on voters across the five state assembly elections.


== Voting ==
A Special Intensive Revision (SIR) was conducted by Election Commission of India before the polls, and in February 2026, after the exercise, 56,707,380 voters were declared as eligible to vote in the 2026 assembly election in Tamil Nadu. As per the final voter list, 57.3 million voters were eligible to vote in the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. This includes 28.3 million male, 29.3 million female, and 7,728 third gender voters.
The polling was held on 23 April 2026 across 75,064 polling stations across 33,133 locations in the state. About 1,06,418 Electronic Voting Machines were used for the polls. As per the data released by the Election Commission after the polling day, the state recorded 84.69% voter turnout, which was 11.06% higher than the preceding assembly elections in 2021, and the highest ever recorded in the assembly elections in the state. Of the registered electorate of 57.3 million, 83.57% of male, 85.76% of female, and 60.49% of third gender voters cast their votes. On 25 April, the turnout was revised to 85.1%.
The votes polled increased by 5.5% compared to the previous assembly election in 2021, while the increase was 6.22% in 2021, 18.5% in 2016, and 11.4% in 2011 when compared to the respective previous assembly elections in the state. Despite the lower increase in the actual votes polled, the higher percentage of voter turnout is attributed in part to the revision of the electoral rolls during the SIR process conducted prior to the polls.


=== Voter turnout by district ===


== Results ==
The newly founded TVK outperformed exit polls to emerge as the single largest party in both seat share and popular vote in a hung assembly, becoming the first party led by an actor-turned politician to do so in its debut Assembly election since 1977, a feat achieved by M. G. Ramachandran. 15 ministers from the outgoing Stalin cabinet were defeated in their respective constituencies.


=== Results by pre-poll alliance or party ===


=== Results by district ===


=== Results by region ===


=== Results by constituency ===


=== Analysis ===
Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK), a two-year-old party led by actor-turned-politician C. Joseph Vijay, won 108 of the 234 seats in the 2026 Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly election. Analysts and media commentators noted that the party’s campaign relied heavily on digital outreach and social media platforms such as YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp. BBC, described the campaign as reflecting a major shift towards digital-first political mobilisation in India.
Election campaigns in India have traditionally relied on public rallies, speeches, banners, door-to-door canvassing and extensive media outreach. In Tamil Nadu, Dravidian parties such as the DMK and the AIADMK have dominated state politics for decades, with politics centred around social justice and welfare policies. During this period, Tamil Nadu also recorded strong economic and social indicators, including 11.2% economic growth in 2024–25 and continued manufacturing expansion. Political observers stated that the prolonged dominance of the major Dravidian parties contributed to growing interest in political alternatives, particularly among younger voters and Gen Z voters who were less connected to traditional political narratives and more receptive to calls for political change.
Although Vijay remained one of the most recognisable public figures in the state, he reportedly campaigned in person for less than three weeks during the election. Some campaign events were cancelled, which the party attributed to logistical constraints and time limitations. Instead of extensive physical campaigning, TVK placed significant emphasis on digital communication and online mobilisation. Vijay did not give media interviews or hold press conferences during the campaign, and his speeches were generally shorter than those of other political leaders. Much of the TVK’s outreach was conducted through social media platforms. TVK supporters and volunteers, including members of an extensive network of fan clubs, circulated campaign material, speech clips, Instagram Reels, YouTube Shorts and WhatsApp messages online. TVK’s information technology wing also played a role in producing campaign content and criticism from rival parties.
NDTV highlighted Vijay’s social media strategy, noting that he used platforms such as Instagram selectively, mainly for updates related to films, public appearances and social messaging related to elections. His online engagement was particularly strong among younger voters and women, as well as among audiences in Chennai and sections of the Tamil diaspora abroad including Istanbul. TVK received notable support from younger voters, including first-time voters. Voters between the ages of 18 and 39, who constitute a significant share of Tamil Nadu’s electorate, were considered an important support base for the party's winning of 108 seats.
The Incumbent DMK was also perceived as overconfident due to favourable internal assessments, which may have delayed timely course correction. Despite appearing arithmetically strong on paper, poor coordination among its allies, inconsistent campaign messaging, and ineffective vote transfer in several constituencies limited the alliance's electoral performance, while persistent corruption allegations, despite the absence of any major scandals, and negative public perceptions further weakened the campaign and collectively contributed to this outcome. From the outset of counting, TVK led across Chennai district and ultimately won 20 of the city's 22 constituencies, with the exception of the Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni and Harbour constituencies, which were retained by the DMK, marking a major breakthrough in a region long considered a DMK stronghold and a historic base of the erstwhile Justice Party, the political precursor to the century-old Dravidian movement. The DMK suffered a complete rout in the neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Vellore. TVK swept Northern Tamil Nadu and made major inroads into Western Kongu region and Southern Tamil Nadu, regions long considered AIADMK strongholds, emerging as the principal party in these areas. TVK won 24 of the 46 reserved assembly constituencies for the scheduled communities in the state, recording major victories across western and northern Tamil Nadu, by making significant inroads into the Dalit vote base of the Dravidian parties and VCK, and became the first debutant party to secure more than half of the reserved seats, while AIADMK and DMK won nine each. Within the AIADMK-led alliance, weak vote transfer, the BJP's diminished independent momentum which it had gained in the state during the 2024 Lok Sabha election, was seen to have been lost following its renewed alignment with the AIADMK in April 2025, and the sidelining of former state unit president K. Annamalai were seen as key factors behind its poor performance, particularly among urban and younger voters amid the rise of the “Vijay factor". However, The results indicated that the AIADMK–PMK alliance had relatively worked in the alliance's favour by consolidating Vanniyar votes in parts of Northern Tamil Nadu. TVK significantly weakened both the DMK and AIADMK in the urban centres of Salem, Coimbatore, Erode, Tiruchirappalli, and Madurai. The AIADMK retained a measure of support in parts of western and northern Tamil Nadu through alliance cohesion, while the DMK performed relatively better in its traditional Cauvery delta stronghold.

Party-wise position in Assembly segments
TVK emerged as the leading party, finished first in 108 assembly segments, runner-up in 74, and third in 51 segments. DMK secured first place in 59 assembly segments, finished runner-up in 80, and placed third in 37 segments. The AIADMK won 47 of the 172 seats it contested, finished runner-up in 44 constituencies, slipped to third place in 81, and lost its deposit in 19 assembly segments. TVK and DMK did not forfeit their deposits in any of the constituencies they had contested in. 


== Aftermath ==
Vijay indicated that he planned to take the oath of the Chief Minister's office on 7 May 2026 at the Nehru Stadium, Chennai. On 6 May 2026, Vijay met the Governor of Tamil Nadu, Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, and staked a claim to the formation of the new government. However, Arlekar asked Vijay to produce letters of support from 118 MLAs, which he thought Vijay did not have, according to media reports. Subsequently, the convoy and security protection provided to Vijay as the Chief Minister-designate were withdrawn.


=== Government formation ===
After the declaration of results, the TVK had emerged as the single largest party (108 seats) in the assembly but could not get the majority (118 seats), leading to a requirement of a minimum 10 additional seats. This led to a series of political maneuvering and ambiguity in Tamil Nadu's politics in the following days. American publication Variety described it as "a frantic few days of horse-trading".
The TVK, which had cited the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Kamarajar of the INC as one of the party's ideological icons, invited the INC MLAs to form a coalition government, which the INC accepted after leaving the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance, leading to the formation of the TVK-led alliance. The INC state unit Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) forwaded Vijay's invitation to their Delhi-headquartered presidium All India Congress Committee (AICC), who sent back the decision to the state unit. The state unit decided to break ties with the DMK and support TVK conditional upon TVK never maintaining ties with the BJP. Following news that Arlekar is delaying inviting the TVK to form the government, INC's Karur MP Jothimani stated that the BJP-appointed Governor "should stop playing politics via the Raj Bhavan".
From 7 May 2026 onwards, allegations of a possible alliance between the DMK and the AIADMK, which could easily achieve a majority in the assembly, circulated in mainstream media. The DMK quickly denied the news, claiming they rejected such an offer from the AIADMK, respecting the people's mandate, and that the DMK had decided to serve as opposition, not interfering in the TVK's government formation process.
Other sources claimed that TVK is holding negotiations with the ADMK over a possible power-sharing arrangement, amidst reports that around 28 of the 47 AIADMK MLAs have been moved to a Puducherry resort, and that a faction within the AIADMK MLAs are willing to support TVK. AIADMK general secretary Palanisami is said to oppose a coalition with the TVK. It was also reported that the five INC MLAs have been moved to Hyderabad, the capital city of the INC-ruled state Telangana, and that they will return to Chennai once Arlekar invites Vijay to form government.
On 8 May 2026, the leftist parties of Tamil Nadu, consisting of CPI and CPI(M), agreed to provide their MLAs' unconditional support to the TVK, stressing on the necessity to form a government by the deadline of 10 May to prevent a President's rule which they dubbed a proxy-BJP regime. The leftist parties affirmed that they would only support "from the outside" but not participate in the government, continuing in their SPA alliance led by the DMK. Following this, Vijay once again met Arlekar, for the third time, insisting on being invited to form the state government. Vijay also submitted a letter of support from the lone MLA of AMMK to the Governor on his third visit, extending support to TVK to form the government. Subsequently, T. T. V. Dhinakaran alleged that the TVK had submitted a photocopy of a forged letter and claimed that it was an attempt at horse-trading involving the party's lone MLA. He later submitted a letter to the Governor disputing the earlier claim. TVK denied the allegation and released a video stating that the AMMK MLA had extended support to the party for government formation.
On 9 May 2026, the VCK and IUML extended unconditional support to TVK to form the government, while continuing their alliance with the DMK-led SPA. Both parties hold two MLAs each in the Assembly. With the support of the INC, along with outside support from SPA allies such as the CPI(M), CPI, VCK and IUML, TVK secured the backing of 120 MLAs, excluding one vacant seat as Vijay had contested and won from two constituencies. Subsequently, Vijay met the Governor along with alliance party leaders and staked claim to form the government. The Governor later appointed Vijay as Chief Minister-designate and directed him to seek a vote of confidence in the Assembly on or before 13 May 2026.
In a ceremony on 10 May, Vijay was sworn-in as the ninth Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, and the thirteenth Chief Minister since the linguistic reformation of the state's boundaries in 1956.


=== Floor test ===

On 13 May 2026, the third day of the inaugural sessions of the 17th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, the government was put through a vote of confidence as stipulated by the landmark Supreme Court ruling of S.R. Bommai v. Union of India (1994). Vijay's TVK government passed the vote comfortably with 144 ayes against 22 noes: 

The DMK's 59 MLAs and the only DMDK MLA staged a walk-out. The Speaker J. C. D. Prabhakar (from TVK) does not get to vote, besides Vijay's vacated Tiruchirapalli East seat, and the MLA, from Tirupattur, was barred from voting due to a Madras High Court order, relating to the counting of votes. The TVK loses three votes, reducing their party strength to 105.
MLAs who voted in favor of the government are from TVK (105) and its post-poll allies (13), and 25 MLAs from the AIADMK led by Thondamuthur MLA S. P. Velumani who support Vijay rebelling against Palanisami, as well as the AMMK MLA expelled by the party for his outspoken support to Vijay. This confirmed the news reports and exposed the yet another factional split within the AIADMK.
Those who voted against the government are the remainder of the AIADMK MLAs (22).
5 MLAs of the PMK (4) and BJP (1) abstained.


=== Controversy ===
Around two dozen foreign nationals were arrested for allegedly casting fraudulent votes in the Tamil Nadu Assembly election pollings held on 23 April 2026. They were accused of using fake Indian identity documents to cast votes, following which the Election Commission ordered a probe into the suspected electoral fraud. Earlier, media reports had stated that many people were returning to Tamil Nadu from abroad to cast their votes, as the election had gained significant attention following the political entry of actor-turned-politician Vijay.


=== Council of Ministers ===

A preliminary State Cabinet of eight ministers, with important portfolios, took oath on 10 May alongside Vijay. It was expanded into a full-fledged Council of Ministers on 21 May. It saw the induction of INC ministers into the Tamil Nadu Cabinet after nearly 60 years. Congress MLAs Rajesh Kumar and P. Vishwanathan were sworn in as ministers. The cabinet expansion marked a record in the history of the Tamil Nadu Cabinet, with four women ministers serving at the same time. Publications reported on the caste representation within Vijay's Council of Ministers, highlighting that the cabinent included seven ministers from Scheduled Communities and both of TVK's Brahmin MLAs. On 22 May, an MLA from VCK and IUML each joined the cabinet for the first time in the state's history, taking the cabinet strength to its maximum limit of 35.


== By-polls ==


== See also ==
2026 elections in India
2026 Puducherry Legislative Assembly election – Election to the legislative assembly of Puducherry
Elections in Tamil Nadu – Overview of the procedure of elections in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu
Politics of Tamil Nadu – Politics related to the Indian state of Tamil Nadu


== Notes ==


== References ==