Carolyn Jeanne Bessette-Kennedy (née Bessette; January 7, 1966 – July 16, 1999) was an American fashion publicist. She worked for Calvin Klein until her 1996 marriage to attorney and publisher John F. Kennedy Jr. Her life and fashion sense became the subjects of intense media scrutiny afterwards. The couple, along with her older sister Lauren, died in a plane crash off the coast of Martha's Vineyard in 1999.


== Early life and education ==
Carolyn Jeanne Bessette was born on January 7, 1966, in White Plains, New York, the youngest child of William Joseph Bessette (born 1942), an architectural engineer turned cabinet-maker, and Ann Marie (née Messina; 1939-2007), an administrator in the New York City public school system. She had two older sisters, twins Lauren and Lisa. Her paternal family was originally French Canadian and descended directly from Jean Besset, who arrived in Quebec during the 17th century. She was also of Italian descent through her mother. Bessette's parents divorced in 1974 when she was 8. Her mother later married Richard Freeman, an orthopedic surgeon, and moved to Old Greenwich, Connecticut, while Bessette's father stayed in White Plains.
Raised in a Roman Catholic household, Bessette later attended St. Mary's High School. At St. Mary's, Bessette was voted by her classmates the "Ultimate Beautiful Person". In high school, Bessette was described as being part of the "in crowd" and having attended "all the right parties". She had initially started high school at Greenwich High School, but her parents transferred her to St. Mary's because they felt she was not taking her studies seriously. After graduating from high school in 1984, Bessette attended Boston University's School of Education,  graduating in 1988 with a degree in elementary education. While there, she dated John Cullen, star of the school's ice hockey team, who would later play professional hockey in the NHL.


== Career ==
Bessette briefly attempted a modeling career, and hired a professional photographer to take pictures for her portfolio. Although her modeling career did not prove to be profitable, she did appear on the cover of Boston University's 1988 calendar, "The Girls of B.U."
After college and until her marriage in 1996, Bessette worked for the American fashion label Calvin Klein. During her career there, she went from being a saleswoman at the Chestnut Hill Mall in Newton, Massachusetts, to becoming the director of publicity for the company's flagship store in Manhattan. While working for Klein in Boston, Bessette was noticed by a traveling sales coordinator for the company, visiting the Boston store, who recommended her to Susan Sokol, president of Calvin Klein Collection. Sokol, impressed with Bessette's grace and style, later named her to a position dealing with Klein's high-profile clients, such as actress Annette Bening and newscaster Diane Sawyer. By the time she left Calvin Klein, she was the director of show productions, earning a salary in the low six figures.


== Personal life ==
Bessette first met attorney and publisher John F. Kennedy Jr., son of the 35th United States president John F. Kennedy and First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, in 1992, while he was dating actress Daryl Hannah. Bessette and Kennedy began dating in 1994 and became a popular paparazzi target, and gossip columns detailed where they ate and shopped, and even covered their public disagreements. Paparazzi often waited outside the couple's Tribeca apartment to snap photographs.
Bessette was introduced to John's uncle, Senator Ted Kennedy, in the late summer of 1994. Following the marriage, the senator told  the press: "You could tell right away that there was something special between the two of them." Bessette moved into Kennedy's Tribeca loft in the summer of 1995, and the couple became engaged later that year.


=== Wedding ===

Kennedy and Bessette wed on September 21, 1996. Their wedding was unknown to the press, avoiding media onlookers. The ceremony took place by candlelight on the remote Georgia island of Cumberland, in a tiny wooden chapel, the First African Baptist Church. The bride selected the then-little-known designer Narciso Rodriguez of Cerruti for her wedding dress of pearl-white silk crêpe. The groom's older sister, Caroline Kennedy, was matron of honor, and his cousin, Polish Prince Anthony Radziwill, the son of his aunt Lee Radziwill-Ross, served as Kennedy's best man. Caroline Kennedy's two daughters, Rose Kennedy Schlossberg and Tatiana Kennedy Schlossberg, were flower girls, and her son Jack Kennedy Schlossberg was the ring bearer. The couple honeymooned in Turkey.


=== Marriage ===
After the wedding, the media attention surrounding the couple intensified, and she often found it difficult to deal with the harassment. When the couple returned from their honeymoon, a mass of reporters were waiting on their doorstep.
John said, "Getting married is a big adjustment for us, and for a private citizen like Carolyn even more so. I ask you to give her all the privacy and room you can."
Bessette-Kennedy and Kennedy were badly disoriented by the constant attention from the paparazzi. The couple were permanently on show, both at fashionable Manhattan events and on their travels to visit celebrities such as Mariuccia Mandelli and Gianni Versace.  She told her friend, Carole Radziwill, that the only way to avoid the paparazzi was to leave her apartment at 7 in the morning. She also complained to her friend, journalist Jonathan Soroff, that she could not get a job without being accused of exploiting her fame. Her minimalist "throwaway chic" fashion sense was chronicled by various fashion publications and drew repeated comparisons to her mother-in-law, former First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Laud for Bessette-Kennedy's style even led to a nomination for Best Female Personal Style at the 1997 Vogue/VH1 Fashion Awards, ultimately losing to Courtney Love. 
While the interest surrounding the couple continued, Bessette-Kennedy refused to give interviews and turned down offers to appear in fashion magazines. Over the course of her marriage, she became more involved with charity work and often accompanied her husband to dinners at the White House. The couple were given a White House tour by President Bill Clinton in March 1998, and she acted as the hostess at parties for her husband's political magazine George.
In the book, The Kennedy Curse: Why Tragedy Has Haunted America's First Family for 150 Years, author Edward Klein claimed that the couple's problems reportedly stemmed from Bessette Kennedy's difficulty dealing with the media attention surrounding her and the marriage, accusations of infidelity, disagreements about having children, and her alleged cocaine use. Although Klein is the author of several Kennedy books, according to Rosemary Terenzio's book Fairy Tale Interrupted, John Kennedy Jr. himself said of Klein, "he is a guy who had lunch with my mother twenty years ago and has been dining out on it ever since." Friends of the couple, including John Perry Barlow and Christiane Amanpour, said that the Kennedys fought on occasion and that Bessette Kennedy had trouble adjusting to the intense media coverage, but denied that she used drugs or that the couple was planning to divorce. Robert Littell, who spent a weekend with the couple a week before the accident, also rejected an allegation that they were living apart at the time of their deaths. The couple began seeing a marriage counselor in March 1999 and sought counseling from Cardinal John O'Connor in the summer of 1999.


== Death ==

Bessette Kennedy died on July 16, 1999, along with her husband and older sister Lauren Bessette, when the light plane John Jr. was piloting crashed into the Atlantic Ocean off the western coast of Martha's Vineyard. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined that the probable cause of the crash was "[t]he pilot's failure to maintain control of the airplane during a descent over water at night, which was a result of spatial disorientation. Factors in the accident were haze and the dark night."
After a five-day search, the wreckage was discovered in the late afternoon of July 21. The bodies were recovered from the ocean floor by Navy divers and taken by motorcade to the county medical examiner's office, where autopsies revealed that the crash victims had died upon impact. At the same time, the Kennedy and Bessette families announced their plans for memorial services.
Toxicology testing was conducted on the pilot and passengers. All tested negative for alcohol and drugs. In the late hours of July 21, the three bodies were taken from Hyannis to Duxbury, where they were cremated in the Mayflower Cemetery crematorium. On the morning of July 22, their ashes were scattered from the Navy ship USS Briscoe off the coast of Martha's Vineyard.


== In popular culture ==
Before marrying Kennedy, Bessette was in a relationship with Calvin Klein model Michael Bergin, who wrote a memoir titled The Other Man: John F. Kennedy Jr., Carolyn Bessette, and Me, which was published in 2004.
In 2004, Kennedy's fellow Brown University alumnus and ex-roommate, Robert T. Littell, published The Men We Became: My Friendship With John F. Kennedy Jr.
In 2005, Bessette Kennedy's close friend Carole Radziwill, wife of John's cousin Polish Prince Anthony Radziwill, published a memoir titled What Remains: A Memoir of Fate, Friendship and Love, that includes her memories of the plane crash that took place just weeks before her own husband's death from cancer.
Rosamund Pike was encouraged by Gone Girl director David Fincher to base her character, Amy Dunne, on Bessette Kennedy. Fincher said of Bessette Kennedy: "She crafted herself, she re-invented herself, and invented that persona. That's where I began." Pike searched unsuccessfully for audio of her, though she would concede her character should be created from the "outside in".
In 2015, Wes Gordon, known for disliking discussion about the influences of his collections, admitted Bessette Kennedy's impact on the clothing for women in that year's collection. Gordon had long been interested in her style before production.
On July 13, 2019, footage of their secret wedding was released in JFK Jr. and Carolyn's Wedding: The Lost Tapes, a two-hour special on TLC, along with interviews with family and guests.
In 2026, she was portrayed by Sarah Pidgeon in the nine episode television mini-series titled Love Story.


== See also ==

Kennedy curse


== References ==


== External links ==
Carolyn Bessette Kennedy at IMDb


== Works cited ==
Heymann, C. David (2007). American Legacy: The Story of John and Caroline Kennedy. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7434-9739-8.