Dileep Raj (2 September 1978 – 13 May 2026) was an Indian actor, television director and producer known for his work in Kannada television and cinema. He appeared in 24 films and produced many television serials under his banner DR Creations.
After beginning his career as an actor appearing in television serials, Raj made his film debut with Boyfriend (2005). He was noted for his role as an antagonist in Milana (2007). Other films he appeared in include U Turn (2016), Orchestra Mysuru (2023) and Nimma Vasthugalige Neeve Javaabdaararu (2025). His final film appearance came in Love Mocktail (2026). Raj also acted on stage, including a leading role in the play Treadmill.
Raj however received recognition for his television work, first as an actor and later as producer and director. With his wife Srividya, he produced Vidya Vinayaka (2017) and Paaru (2018–2024), and starred in produced Hitler Kalyana (2021–2024). He died from a heart attack on 13 May 2026, aged 47.


== Career ==
Raj began his acting career on stage. After winning an award at a college fest, he took to amateur theatre. He associated himself with renowned theatre groups such as Nataranga and Drishti. After being intoduced to television by noted actress Nanditha, Raj made his debut with the telefilm Kambada Mane in 1997. He then appeared in Janani as the grandson of Bharathi Vishnuvardhan's character. He went on to appear in other television serials such as Ardha Satya, Rangoli, Kumkuma Bhagya, Mangalya, Malebillu, Preetigaagi, and Rathasapthami. In Rathasapthami, based a true incident, he played Jeevan, a negative-shaded character. Raj called him "...a schemer who goes about harming everyone who comes close to understanding his dubious ways."
Raj's film debut came in 2005, when he was offered a role in Boyfriend. The makers had not finalized on who would play the male lead. After the media mistook him as the lead actor, he was offered the role. The film failed to perform commercially. After film roles failed to come his way, Raj returned to television, playing a negative role in Mangalya, while also appearing in Malebillu. He was then offered the role of the antagonist in Milana, with Puneeth Rajkumar and Parvathy Thiruvothu playing the lead roles. The film was a massive commercial success. However, upon not receiving starring roles, Raj again returned to television after appearing in Love Guru (2009) and Gaana Bajaana (2010). Raj was also worked a dubbing artist starting with Jogi (2005). In Aa Dinagalu (2007), he dubbed for Chethan Kumar's character.
Raj worked as the Fiction Head for Colors Kannada in 2015. In 2014, he ventured into television production with his banner DR Creations. Previously, he assisted director Jayanth for the serial Sahagamana. Under DR Creations, he produced multiple extended-running television shows for major networks such as Colors Kannada, Star Suvarna and Zee Kannada. His projects combined traditional Kannada cultural elements with contemporary filmmaking methods. Raj became popular for his role in Hitler Kalyana, a serial he also produced.
In 2017, Raj produced the comedy show Majaa Bharatha. In its first season, it completed 52 episodes. His final film appearance came in Love Mocktail 3, in which played Sanjay, an advocate. A micro-series titled Love Punch was his final work as director. It was released following his death in May 2026.


== Personal life and death ==
Raj married Srividya, an HR professional, in 2001. After a corporate career of 16 years, Srividya quit to join her husband in television production. The couple had two children together: daughters Dhruti and Aditi, both of who have made television appearances.
During a visit to Goa in May 2026, Raj complained of chest discomfort and uneasiness. It was reported that might have had a heart ailment, and that he was planning on getting himself checked upon returning to Bangalore. However, he suffered from a massive heart attack in the early hours of 13 May. He was rushed to a hospital in the city, but efforts to revive him failed and was pronounced dead. His last rites were held at his farmhouse near Gunnur, in Ramanagara taluk, as per Lingayat traditions, with family members and numerous film and television industry colleagues in attendance.


== Filmography ==
All films are in Kannada, unless otherwise noted.

As dubbing artist
Srusti (2004)
Olave (2005)
Jogi (2005)
Parichaya (2009)
Aa Dinagalu (2007) for Chethan Kumar
Anthu Inthu Preethi Banthu (2008) for Aditya Babu


== Television ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Dileep Raj at IMDb