The 2026 Double or Nothing was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by All Elite Wrestling (AEW). It was the eighth annual Double or Nothing and took place during Memorial Day weekend on Sunday, May 24, 2026, at Louis Armstrong Stadium in Queens, New York.
Twelve matches were contested at the event, including three on the "Buy In" pre-show. In the main event, MJF defeated Darby Allin in a Title vs. Hair match to win the AEW World Championship. In other prominent matches, Konosuke Takeshita defeated Kazuchika Okada to win the AEW International Championship; Jericho, The Hurt Syndicate (Bobby Lashley and Shelton Benjamin), and The Elite (Kenny Omega, Jack Perry, Matt Jackson, and Nick Jackson) defeated The Demand (Ricochet, Bishop Kaun, and Toa Liona), The Don Callis Family (Mark Davis and Andrade El Ídolo), and The Dogs (Clark Connors and David Finlay) in a Stadium Stampede match; and in the opening bout, Cage and Cope (Christian Cage and Adam Copeland) defeated FTR (Dax Harwood and Cash Wheeler) to win the AEW World Tag Team Championship in a New York Street Fight "I Quit" match where if Cage and Cope had lost, they would have disbanded as a team forever. The event also saw the return of Kyle Fletcher, who had been out with an injury since March as well as the on-screen AEW pay-per-view debut of Hardcore legend Mick Foley, who was signed a few days prior.


== Production ==


=== Background ===

Double or Nothing is considered one of All Elite Wrestling's (AEW) marquee events, having first been held in 2019, which was the promotion's first professional wrestling event and first pay-per-view (PPV) event produced. It is held annually in May during Memorial Day weekend and is one of AEW's "Big Five" PPVs, which includes All In, All Out, Full Gear, and Revolution, the promotions five biggest annual shows. Since its inception, it carried a gambling theme due to the event being held either in the Las Vegas area or a town/venue associated with casinos.
On February 18, 2026, AEW announced that the eighth annual Double or Nothing event would take place at the Louis Armstrong Stadium in Queens, New York on May 24, 2026. This marked the first Double or Nothing to be held in the New York City Metro area. Tickets for the event went on sale March 9.


=== Broadcast ===
Double or Nothing aired via PPV through traditional cable and satellite providers. In the United States, AEW PPV events are available on HBO Max at an exclusive rate for subscribers. The event will also be available in the United States and internationally on Prime Video, Triller TV, PPV.com, and YouTube. Additionally in the United States, the show was broadcast at Dave & Buster's and Tom's Watch Bar locations. Outside of the United States and Canada, the event was available to stream on MyAEW.


=== Storylines ===

Double or Nothing featured professional wrestling matches that involved different wrestlers from pre-existing feuds and storylines. Storylines were produced on AEW's weekly television programs, Dynamite and Collision.
After a one-year hiatus, Chris Jericho returned to AEW on the April 1 episode Dynamite, renaming himself mononymously as Jericho. The following week, Jericho signed a new multi-year contract for AEW and began a feud with The Demand (Ricochet, Bishop Kaun, and Toa Liona) after they interrupted him. According to Jericho, his contract allowed him to challenge anyone of his choice, and he chose Ricochet, the group's leader, for a match at Dynasty, where Ricochet defeated Jericho by pinfall. Following his loss, Jericho began an alliance with The Hurt Syndicate (Bobby Lashley, Shelton Benjamin, and MVP) on the April 22 episode, however, The Demand would defeat Jericho, Lashley, and Benjamin at Collision: Playoff Palooza on April 25, with Ricochet pinning Jericho a second time. On the April 29 episode of Dynamite, Jericho was attacked backstage by The Demand. The following week, Jericho called out The Demand in the ring, with Ricochet challenging Jericho for a Stadium Stampede match at Double or Nothing, which he accepted. They eventually brawl, with The Hurt Syndicate later arriving to aid Jericho with Lashley and Benjamin joining Jericho's team. On the May 9 special episode of Collision: Fairway to Hell, Jack Perry defended his AEW National Championship against Don Callis Family member Mark Davis. However, Ricochet, who was the one Perry defeated at Revolution to win the title, interfered, causing Perry to lose the title. Because of that, Perry announced that The Elite (Perry, The Young Bucks, and Kenny Omega) would join Jericho's team. In response, Ricochet recruited Davis. On the May 13 episode of Dynamite, Ricochet also recruited Don Callis Family member Andrade El Ídolo and The Dogs (Clark Connors and David Finlay).
This year's Double or Nothing would feature the Owen Hart Cup, a yearly annual tournament established since 2021 where the winner receives "The Owen" trophy and a commemorative belt. The brackets for men and women was announced on the May 13 episode of Dynamite, with three quarterfinal matches, Samoa Joe vs. Will Ospreay, Bandido vs. Swerve Strickland, and Alex Windsor vs. Willow Nightingale being scheduled for Double or Nothing. The rest of the quarterfinal matches alongside the semifinals will take place on AEW's weekly television programs Dynamite and Collision with tournament finals matches taking place at Forbidden Door on June 28 and the winner receiving a world title match at AEW's flagship show All In on August 30. On the May 20 episode, Nightingale announced that she was injured, and unable to compete in the tournament. Winsor's opponent was then announced to be a Wild Card entrant, with another quarterfinal match, this one between Athena and Mina Shirakawa, scheduled for Double or Nothing.
In March, Darby Allin set his sight on the AEW World Championship, held by MJF, who would then make an agreement with The Don Callis Family to prevent Allin from coming after his championship. Allin was then scheduled to face Andrade El Ídolo at Dynasty, where if Allin won, he would have a shot at the title. Allin won the match, and invoked the title match three days later  at AEW Dynamite: Spring BreakThru. Allin went on to defeat MJF to win the title for the first time after successfully landing four coffin drops. The match lasted 2 minutes and 15 seconds, marking the fastest AEW title win in company history. Following the win, Allin began defending the title weekly on Dynamite and Collision. MJF constantly demanded a rematch for the title, however, Allin declined numerous time, stating that MJF had to put something on the line. On the May 6 episode of Dynamite, MJF would again demand a rematch, to which Allin also made a demand for MJF to put his hair on the line to accept the rematch. Initially refusing and attempting to put other things on the line, such as his Burberry scarf and $1,000,000, MJF agreed to put his hair on the line on the following week's Dynamite, with both MJF and Allin signing the contract to make their Title vs. Hair match official.


== Reception ==
Double or Nothing has received positive reviews from critics. Writing for TJR Wrestling, John Canton graded the event an 8.25 out of 10, praising its entertainment value, the matches, Kevin Knight's heel turn on Darby Allin, but criticized that the event could have been 30 minutes shorter. Writing for 411Mania, Thomas Hall also praised the event as "outstanding" and "awesome stuff". Hall praised many of the matches as "match of the night", and graded the event a 9.5 out of 10. Also writing for 411Mania, Theo Sambus also graded Double or Nothing a 9.5 out of 10, calling it a "phenomenal PPV" and also rewarded Kazuchika Okada vs Konosuke Takeshita's International Championship title match five stars and "match of the year contender (MOTYC)". Chris Mueller of Bleacher Report graded the event an A-, and considered it "successful" and praised the match variants. He also rewarded Kazuchika Okada vs Konosuke Takeshita as the events best bell-to-bell performance, the story of Takeshita leaving the Don Callis Family, and praised Kevin Knight's heel turn as "unexpected".


== Results ==


=== Owen Hart Cup brackets ===


==== Women's ====


==== Men's ====


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
All Elite Wrestling Official website