From (stylized as FROM) is an American science fiction horror television series created by John Griffin. The first season premiered on February 20, 2022, on Epix. The series stars Harold Perrineau, Catalina Sandino Moreno, Eion Bailey, David Alpay, Elizabeth Saunders, Scott McCord, Ricky He, and Chloe Van Landschoot in main roles.
The series has received critical acclaim for its story, directing, and the performances of the cast (particularly Perrineau). The second season premiered on the rebranded MGM+ in April 2023. The third season premiered in September 2024. In November 2024, the series was renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on April 19, 2026. In April 2026, the series was renewed for a fifth and final season.


== Premise ==
The series is set in a nightmarish town in the United States that traps those who enter. The unwilling residents strive to remain alive while plagued by terrifying nocturnal creatures from the surrounding forest as they search for secrets hidden within the town and beyond in the hope of finding a way out.
The series centers on Boyd Stevens (Perrineau), the self-appointed sheriff and de facto mayor, and the Matthews family, new arrivals who discover they are trapped. The town's residents must work together to stay alive and find a way to escape.


== Cast and characters ==


=== Main ===
Harold Perrineau as Boyd Stevens, the self-appointed sheriff and de facto mayor of the Township. He is a retired US Army veteran who served in Afghanistan and Iraq. Boyd is estranged from his son Ellis after killing his wife, Abby, who had a mental breakdown and attacked some of the townspeople.
Catalina Sandino Moreno as Tabitha Matthews, Jim's wife and Julie and Ethan's mother, who together are new arrivals to the town. She chooses to live in the Township with her husband and son and is still mourning the recent loss of her youngest child, Thomas. At the end of the third season, she is revealed to be a reincarnation of Miranda Kavanaugh. Vivian Crooks portrays young Tabitha.
Eion Bailey as Jim Matthews (seasons 1–3; guest season 4), Tabitha's husband and Julie and Ethan's father, who lives in the Township with his wife and son. He works with Jade to find a way to escape the town and contact the outside world.
David Alpay as Jade Herrera, a wealthy software developer who arrives at the town on the same day as the Matthews family. Despite his intelligence, he is initially arrogant and abrasive to the Township residents and struggles with his new circumstances. At the end of the third season, he is revealed to be a reincarnation of Christopher. Viggo Hanvelt portrays young Jade.
Elizabeth Saunders as Donna Raines, the leader of the residents at Colony House, who live separately from the Township
Shaun Majumder as Father Rudra Khatri (season 1; guest seasons 2–3), the Township's Christian priest and voice of reason in the community. Following his death, he continues to appear before Boyd as a hallucination.
Scott McCord as Victor Kavanaugh, a peculiar Colony House resident trapped in the town since he was a child. Eli Arsenault portrays young Victor during flashbacks.
Ricky He as Kenny Liu, Boyd's deputy and right-hand man, who lives with his aging parents in the Township
Chloe Van Landschoot as Kristi Miller, the Township's doctor and a former medical student who was separated from her fiancée when she became trapped in the town
Pegah Ghafoori as Fatima Hassan, Ellis's girlfriend, later wife, and one of the Colony House residents
Corteon Moore as Ellis Stevens, Boyd's son, who lives estranged from his father at Colony House
Hannah Cheramy as Julie Matthews, Jim and Tabitha's teenage daughter and Ethan's older sister, who at first chooses to live at Colony House, where she befriends Ellis and Fatima
Simon Webster as Ethan Matthews, Jim and Tabitha's young son and Julie's younger brother, who lives with his parents in the Township
Avery Konrad as Sara Myers, Nathan's sister who works at the Township's diner. She has frequent hallucinations that command her to kill other residents of the Township.
Paul Zinno as Nathan Myers (season 1), Sara's brother, who lives in the Township and tends to the farm animals
Elizabeth Moy as Tian-Chen Liu (seasons 1–3), Kenny's mother and Bing-Qian's wife, who runs the diner in the Township
Deborah Grover as Tillie (seasons 2–3), an aging, carefree woman and one of the bus passengers who arrive at the town
Angela Moore as Bakta (season 2–present), a bus driver who unknowingly brings many new arrivals to the town
Kaelen Ohm as Marielle Sinclair (season 2–present), Kristi's fiancée, a pediatric nurse, and one of the bus passengers who arrive at the town
A.J. Simmons as Randall Kirkland (season 2–present), a volatile, quick-to-anger man and one of the bus passengers who arrive at the town
Nathan D. Simmons as Elgin Williams (season 2–present), one of the bus passengers who had prophetic dreams about the town prior to his arrival.
Robert Joy as Henry Kavanaugh (season 3–present), Victor's father, who lived alone in Camden, Maine, for forty years after the disappearance of his wife and children.
Samantha Brown as Dani Acosta (season 3–present), a police officer brought to the town after picking up Tabitha and Henry in the outside world.
Julia Doyle as Sophia (season 4), a sheltered and vulnerable pastor's daughter. Sophia is a disguise used by the shapeshifting "Man in Yellow", to infiltrate the town's residents.


=== Recurring ===
Reid Price as Tom (season 1; guest seasons 2–3), the Township's friendly bartender and a former college professor
Cynthia Jimenez-Hicks as Trudy (season 1), Ellis and Fatima's friend, and one of the Colony House residents
Vox Smith as the "Boy in White" (season 1; guest seasons 2–4), a mysterious child-like figure who only a select number of the townspeople can see. This includes Ethan, Sara, Victor, and Tabitha.
Katerina Bakolias as Clara, a superstitious Colony House resident
Cliff Saunders as Dale (seasons 1–2; guest season 3), an antagonistic Colony House resident
Matthias Fenez as Matthias (season 2), the doorman for Colony House
Zach Faye as Reggie (season 2), a resident of the Township whose wife, Paula, was mysteriously killed in her sleep
Shuoxin Fu as the "Kimono Woman" (season 3; guest season 2), a monstrous corpse-like woman Elgin and Fatima see during visions


=== Guest ===
Simon Sinn as Bing-Qian Liu (seasons 1–2), Kenny's father and Tian-Chen's husband, who has dementia and lives in the Township with a collection of recipe books and enjoys chess. In the second season, he appears during flashbacks.
Bob Mann as Frank Pratt (season 1), a resident of the Township whose wife and daughter were killed the night before the Matthews family arrived at the town
Colby Conrad as Tobey McCray (season 1), Jade's best friend, who arrives with him at the town on the same day as the Matthews family
Jessica Barry as Gina (season 1), a resident of the Township who helps care for Bing-Qian
Jamie McGuire as the "Smiley Creature", one of the creatures that torment the town, who is notable for the ever-present grin on his face. After being killed during the second season, he is reborn at the end of the third season.
Christopher Hayes as Kevin (season 1), a Colony House resident who falls in love with one of the creatures
Molly Dunsworth as "Jasmine" (season 1), a creature with whom Kevin becomes infatuated
Lisa Ryder as Abby Stevens (seasons 1–2), Boyd's wife, Ellis's mother, and a retired US Marine who appears during flashbacks and visions
Robert Verlaque as Martin (seasons 2–3), a strange older man Boyd finds chained to a wall
Seamus Patterson as Brick (season 2), one of the bus passengers who has claustrophobia
Phoebe Rex as Kelly (season 2), one of the bus passengers who goes missing with her boyfriend after arriving in the town
Taras Lesiuk as Brian (season 2), one of the bus passengers and Kelly's boyfriend
Annika Borg as Paula (season 2), Reggie's wife, who is mysteriously killed in her sleep
Thom Payne as Christopher (seasons 2–4), a ventriloquist and resident of the Township during Victor's childhood
Sarah Booth as Miranda Kavanaugh (seasons 2–3), Victor and Eloise's mother, who was killed during Victor's childhood by the creatures
Ellie Cluett as Eloise Kavanaugh (season 2), Victor's younger sister, who was killed during Victor's childhood by the creatures
Sharleen Kalayil as Dr Brody (seasons 2–3), a doctor in Camden, Maine who treats Tabitha
Tamara Fifield as Nicky (season 3), an unsympathetic Colony House resident
Eugene Sampang as Roger (seasons 3–4), a Colony House resident
Trina Corkum as Patty (seasons 3–4), a Colony House resident
Douglas E. Hughes as the "Man in Yellow" (season 3–present), a mysterious shapeshifting entity. His voice is also heard over the radio at the end of the first season.
Rhys Bevan-John as the Pastor (season 4), a pastor who enters the Township


== Episodes ==


== Production ==
On June 7, 2018, YouTube Red announced the development of the John Griffin–created series as part of an overall deal between production companies Midnight Radio and the Russo brothers' AGBO. By April 2021, the series was transferred to Epix after YouTube Red, now YouTube Premium, moved into unscripted programming. The project received an order of ten episodes, with Jack Bender to direct the first four. In May 2021, Harold Perrineau, Eion Bailey and Catalina Sandino Moreno were cast in lead roles. In July, Shaun Majumder, Elizabeth Saunders, Avery Konrad, Hannah Cheramy, Ricky He, Simon Webster, Chloe Van Landschoot, and Pegah Gahfoori joined the cast. The opening theme song, "Que Sera, Sera (Whatever Will Be, Will Be)" (1956), was performed as a cover by American alt-rock band the Pixies; the music score was composed by Chris Tilton.
The first season began filming in May 2021 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, with principal photography around Beaver Bank and Sackville River, in the suburban community of Lower Sackville.
On April 24, 2022, Epix renewed the series for a second season. On June 29, 2023, MGM+ renewed the series for a third season.
On November 21, 2024, MGM+ renewed the series for a fourth season. Filming for the season began in June 2025 in Nova Scotia, and concluded that November.
On April 15, 2026, MGM+ renewed the series for a fifth and final season.


== Release ==
The series premiered on Epix on February 20, 2022. In Australia, it is distributed by Stan. In the UK, it is broadcast on Sky Sci-Fi. In Canada and in Italy, it is available to stream on Paramount+. In India, it is available to stream on Amazon Prime Video. In the Middle East & North Africa, it is available to stream on OSN+.
The second season premiered on the rebranded MGM+ on April 23, 2023. The third season premiered on September 2, 2024. The fourth season premiered on April 19, 2026.


== Reception ==


=== Season 1 ===
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 96% of 25 reviews for the first season are positive. The website's critical consensus reads, "Ably anchored by Harold Perrineau, From is an intriguing journey toward a mysterious destination." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 63 out of 100 based on seven critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".


=== Season 2 ===
On Rotten Tomatoes, 93% of 15 reviews for the second season are positive. The website's critical consensus reads, "Skillfully maintaining its balance of puzzle box teasing and genuine pathos, From's second season is a spooky sci-fi treat."


=== Season 3 ===
On Rotten Tomatoes, 100% of 25 reviews for the third season are positive. The website's critical consensus reads, "From strategically unspools its taut story just enough to reel audiences back in with another horrifying season of chills and thrills."


=== Season 4 ===
On Rotten Tomatoes, 100% of 17 reviews for the fourth season are positive.


== Awards and nominations ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
From at IMDb