Judith Rosemary Locke Chalmers (10 October 1935 – 21 May 2026) was an English television and radio presenter. She began broadcasting for the BBC as a teenager and went on to present a wide range of programmes, including Family Favourites, Woman's Hour, Come Dancing and ITV's daytime magazine shows. Chalmers was best known for presenting the ITV travel series Wish You Were Here...? from 1974 to 2003. Her later work included appearances on programmes such as Celebrity Antiques Road Trip, Good Morning Britain, Lorraine and Celebrity Taste of Italy. She was appointed OBE in 1994.


== Early life ==
Judith Rosemary Locke Chalmers was born on 10 October 1935 in Gatley, Stockport, Greater Manchester, and grew up in Cheadle. Her father, David, was an architect, and died when Chalmers was 17. Her mother, Millie (née Broadhurst), was a medical secretary. She had a younger sister, Sandra Chalmers. Both siblings were educated at Withington Girls' School, an independent day school in Fallowfield near Withington, Manchester.


== Career ==
Chalmers began broadcasting for the BBC when she was 13, after being selected for BBC Northern Children's Hour by producer Trevor Hill. Her younger sister Sandra, who was later editor of Woman's Hour, also performed on Children's Hour. Chalmers presented many programmes from Manchester, including Children's Television Club, which later developed into Blue Peter based in London. She spent some time at secretarial college in Manchester in the early 1950s.
In the 1960s, Chalmers presented two major BBC radio programmes: Family Favourites, and Woman's Hour. She also appeared as the original Susan in The Clitheroe Kid, and was a foil for Ken Dodd in his radio show. Chalmers presented ballroom dancing competition programme Come Dancing for the BBC from 1961 to 1965.
During the 1970s, Chalmers regularly presented ITV's daytime magazine programme Good Afternoon, and its successors, including Afternoon Plus, and A Plus. She began presenting ITV's holiday programme Wish You Were Here? in 1974 and continued in the role until 2003.
In the 1980s Chalmers was a regular host of the Miss World contest on ITV, and also presented associated UK beauty pageants such as Miss United Kingdom. Chalmers presented BBC Radio 2's mid-morning show from 1990 to 1992, taking over from Ken Bruce, who returned to the programme following her departure in 1992.
In 2013, Chalmers took part in an episode of the BBC Two series Celebrity Antiques Road Trip, with her son, Mark. Her television appearances in later years included contributions to shows such as Good Morning Britain, and Lorraine. Chalmers also took part in Channel 5's Celebrity Taste of Italy.
In 2022, at the age of 86, Chalmers was appointed Heathrow Express's new chief smile officer, a role intended to keep travellers happy.


== Personal life and death ==
Chalmers was married to sports commentator Neil Durden-Smith from 1964 until her death. The couple had two children, including television presenter Mark Durden-Smith, and six grandchildren.
She was appointed an OBE in 1994.
Chalmers died of complications from Alzheimer's disease at her home on 21 May 2026, aged 90.


== Filmography ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Judith Chalmers at IMDb
Judith Chalmers discography at Discogs