The men's major golf championships, also known simply as the majors, are the four most prestigious events in professional golf. The competitions are the Masters Tournament, the PGA Championship, the U.S. Open, and The Open Championship, contested annually.

Jack Nicklaus has won the most majors, achieving 18 victories during his career. Second on the list is Tiger Woods, who has won 15 majors to date; his most recent major victory was at the 2019 Masters. Walter Hagen is third with 11 majors; he and Nicklaus have both won the most PGA Championships with five. Nicklaus also holds the record for the most victories in the Masters, winning the tournament six times. Additionally, Nicklaus shares the record for the most U.S. Open victories with Willie Anderson, Bobby Jones and Ben Hogan, each winning four times. Harry Vardon holds the record for the most Open Championship victories, winning six times during his career. Six men: Nicklaus, Woods, Hogan, Gary Player, Rory McIlroy and Gene Sarazen are the only golfers to have won all four of the majors during their career, thus achieving the career grand slam. Nicklaus and Woods are the only players to have won multiple career grand slams, winning each major more than once. Although the U.S. Amateur and The Amateur Championship were once considered to be majors, they are no longer recognized as such, and victories in these competitions are not included in the list.
As of the 2026 PGA Championship, 476 majors have been played. A total of 235 different men have won majors and, of these, 89 have won at least two.


== By golfer ==


== By country ==


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Chronological list of men's major golf champions
List of LPGA major championship winning golfers


== References ==
General

"Masters Champions". Masters. Archived from the original on October 12, 2013. Retrieved August 19, 2011.
"Past Champions". U.S. Open. Archived from the original on 2 May 2008. Retrieved 26 October 2008.
"Open Champions". Open Golf. Archived from the original on 2 March 2010. Retrieved 24 October 2008.
"PGA Championship". PGA Media Center. Archived from the original on August 16, 2011. Retrieved August 20, 2011.
Specific