Mortal Kombat II is a 2026 American martial arts dark fantasy film based on the video-game series created by Ed Boon and John Tobias. It is the sequel to Mortal Kombat (2021) and is the fourth installment in the Mortal Kombat film series. Directed by Simon McQuoid and written by Jeremy Slater, it stars returning cast members Jessica McNamee, Josh Lawson, Ludi Lin, Mehcad Brooks, Lewis Tan, Max Huang, Damon Herriman (in a different role), Chin Han, Tadanobu Asano, Joe Taslim, and Hiroyuki Sanada, with Karl Urban, Adeline Rudolph, Martyn Ford, and Tati Gabrielle joining the cast. The film follows Johnny Cage, a martial arts actor who is recruited by the thunder god Raiden and Sonya Blade to join his fellow Earthrealm fighters in an interdimensional tournament against the Outworld warriors and stop the tyrannical emperor Shao Kahn, with the help of Edenian princess Kitana.
Following the release of Mortal Kombat in April 2021, producer Todd Garner, writer Greg Russo, and director McQuoid began conversations about the future of the franchise, including standalone films focused on Johnny Cage and Bi-Han / Sub-Zero, and a sequel to the 2021 film. By 2022, New Line Cinema green-lit the sequel, with Slater penning the screenplay and McQuoid returning to direct. Filming began in June 2023 in Australia, was paused in mid-July due to the SAG-AFTRA strike, resumed in mid-November, and concluded in late January 2024. 
Mortal Kombat II premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre on April 27, 2026, and was theatrically released in the United States on May 8, 2026, by Warner Bros. Pictures. It has grossed $120.1 million worldwide on an $80 million production budget and, while it was rated better than its predecessor, received mixed reviews from critics. A third film is in development, but not yet greenlit and depends on the reception of Mortal Kombat II.


== Plot ==
In a flashback, Emperor Shao Kahn kills King Jerrod in Mortal Kombat, taking over Edenia in the name of Outworld as well as Queen Sindel and Princess Kitana as his consort and daughter, respectively. 
Twenty years later, with the tenth Mortal Kombat tournament on the horizon, Quan Chi, on Shao Kahn's orders, revives Kung Lao and Kano, unable to corrupt and control the latter due to his already corrupt nature. Back in Earthrealm, Lord Raiden and Sonya Blade retrieve washed-up actor Johnny Cage to fight as their fifth champion alongside Sonya, Liu Kang, Jax Briggs, and Cole Young, but Johnny refuses to participate.
The tournament begins, and in the first round, Sonya faces a corrupted Sindel while Johnny is forcibly teleported to fight Kitana. Sonya manages to kill Sindel, while Kitana defeats Johnny but spares him, against Shao Kahn's direct orders. Kitana reveals she is a spy for Raiden, but her bodyguard Jade confronts her for betraying Shao Kahn. Quan Chi recovers Shinnok's stolen amulet from Kano. He, Shang Tsung, and a revenant Kung Lao then attack and steal most of Raiden's power for the amulet, which they bind to Shao Kahn, making him immortal. Raiden is incapacitated and barely alive as a result. The second round begins where Liu Kang and Kung Lao face off. Despite his efforts to redeem Kung Lao, Liu Kang is forced to kill him. Jax fights against Jade and defeats her, but spares her to repay what Kitana did for Johnny. Cole fights and mortally wounds Shao Kahn, but his wounds heal instantly, and Shao Kahn kills Cole.
Realizing they cannot defeat Shao Kahn while he holds the amulet, Liu Kang, Jax, Sonya, and Johnny travel to the Tarkatans' home. Johnny fights and defeats their leader Baraka, regaining confidence in himself and earning Baraka's trust as he guides them to a hidden entrance below Shao Kahn's palace. Kitana is captured by Jade, and Shao Kahn has Kitana chained up in the public square. The four Earthrealm champions try to get the amulet, but Jax is killed by Shao Kahn while Liu Kang and Sonya are taken away for the next round of the tournament. Kano, preferring the luxuries and riches of Earthrealm over Outworld, betrays Shao Kahn and reveals to Johnny that a revived Bi-Han has the amulet and is currently in the Netherrealm. Raiden, using what little power he has left, sends Kano and Johnny to Netherrealm to destroy the amulet.
In the final round, Shao Kahn fatally wounds Liu Kang, with the latter realizing that he himself is not the chosen one. Liu Kang evaporates into fire as he declares that he will rescue the fallen. Sonya frees Kitana before being knocked out by Shao Kahn, who wins the tournament for Outworld. Kitana denounces Shao Kahn and formally switches allegiances to Earthrealm, giving them one more champion, and fights Shao Kahn one-on-one. Johnny and Kano team up with the spirit of Hanzo Hasashi and a reformed Jade to fight Bi-Han, and they destroy the amulet, during which Johnny's powers are unlocked. Now mortal, Shao Kahn is unmasked and killed by Kitana, freeing Edenia as she becomes its queen. Shang Tsung attempts to kill Raiden in his weakened state, but the amulet's destruction restores Raiden's power, allowing him to easily defeat Shang Tsung. Some time later, Johnny, Sonya, Raiden, Kitana, Jade, and Baraka reunite with Kano, who has captured Quan Chi, and plan to use him to revive the other fallen champions.


== Cast ==

Mortal Kombat series co-creator Ed Boon has two cameo appearances in the film, the first one being a bartender and the second being archival audio of Scorpion's "Get over here" line during the climax. Out of both roles, the former is the only one he is credited for.


== Production ==


=== Development ===

Following the release of Mortal Kombat in April 2021, actor Joe Taslim revealed that he was contracted for four additional Mortal Kombat films, if Warner Bros. Pictures decided to create a franchise. Director Simon McQuoid stated that he was open to returning to direct a sequel if the story for it was good. In an interview after the film's release, McQuoid said that the character Johnny Cage was not introduced in the film because Johnny Cage was a "giant personality" and would throw the film out of balance. He revealed that potential sequels could explore the material for characters like Cage and Kitana. He also expressed that he would like to include more female characters. Co-writer Greg Russo told Collider that he saw the reboot as a trilogy with the first film set before the tournament, the second film set during the tournament and the third film set post-tournament.
In November 2021, producer Todd Garner hinted at a sequel in development on Twitter, and in January 2022, the film was confirmed to be in development with Jeremy Slater writing the script. In May 2022, Slater confirmed plans to include Johnny Cage in the film, after the character had been set up at the end of Mortal Kombat, though he noted his exact role in the story had not been determined. That same month, Slater mentioned the film would "embrace some of [the] weirdness" inherent to the Mortal Kombat franchise, and that he wanted the film to be "unpredictable" and to defy fan expectations. In June 2022, he further explained that the sequel would address both positive and negative fan reactions to the first film. In July 2022, it was announced that the film had been greenlit by New Line and that McQuoid would return to direct the sequel.


=== Casting ===

In May 2023, Tati Gabrielle was in final negotiations to play Jade in the film, with Karl Urban also in final talks to play Cage. It was also reported that Jessica McNamee and Josh Lawson would return to play Sonya Blade and Kano respectively. Later that month, Adeline Rudolph, who had worked with Gabrielle on the Netflix series Chilling Adventures of Sabrina, joined the cast as Kitana, with Gabrielle confirmed to be playing Jade. In June 2023, Martyn Ford, Desmond Chiam, Ana Thu Nguyen, and Damon Herriman were cast as Shao Kahn, King Jerrod, Queen Sindel and Quan Chi, respectively. Herriman previously voiced Kabal in the 2021 film. Later that month, Max Huang confirmed he would return as Kung Lao. A month ahead of the film's release in April 2026, Mortal Kombat co-creator Ed Boon was revealed to appear in the film.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography began on June 22, 2023, at Village Roadshow Studios in Gold Coast, Queensland, with Stephen F. Windon as the cinematographer. Due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike, filming was suspended in July and resumed following the end of the strike in November 2023. Filming officially concluded in late January 2024.


== Release ==
Mortal Kombat II premiered at TCL Chinese Theater on April 27, 2026, and was theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on May 8, 2026. It was previously scheduled to release on October 24, 2025, and May 15, 2026.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
As of May 25, 2026, Mortal Kombat II grossed $74.2 million in the United States and Canada, and $45.9 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $120.1 million. It was produced on a budget of $80 million.
In the United States and Canada, Mortal Kombat II opened alongside The Sheep Detectives and Billie Eilish – Hit Me Hard and Soft: The Tour (Live in 3D), and was projected to gross $40–45 million in its opening weekend. It made $17 million on its first day, including $5.2 million in Thursday night previews, and went on to debut with $38.5 million, finishing second behind The Devil Wears Prada 2.


=== Critical response ===
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 64% of 179 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.7/10. The website's consensus reads: "A self-aware slugfest that plays directly to those who know the difference between Fatalities and Babalities, Mortal Kombat II may not be a flawless victory but it's likely the most roundly enjoyable entry in the franchise yet." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 46 out of 100, based on 35 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B" on an A+ to F scale, down from the previous film's "B+" grade. Audiences polled by PostTrak gave it a 72% "definite recommend". 
Frank Scheck of The Hollywood Reporter gave the film a positive review, saying: "The film has its rewards, mostly of the unsophisticated kind, since the fight sequences come fast and furious and the cheesy dialogue has enough groan-worthy one-liners to inspire a thousand drinking games," labeling the film "a tacky sequel that's strictly for the fans". Glenn Kenny of The New York Times gave the film a positive review, writing: "The spectacle — its eardrum-shattering, eye-popping pyrotechnics, with the violence framed against all manner of phantasmagoric computer-generated backdrops — is its own reward." Simon Abrams of RogerEbert.com gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four, writing: "It makes good on its grisly promise whenever its meat-puppet protagonists stop talking and start pummeling each other."
Johnny Oleksinski of New York Post gave the film one star out of four, calling it "a migraine of nonstop fights and idiot characters", as well as "repetitive kills from bottom-drawer cartoons." Benjamin Lee of The Guardian gave the film two stars out of five, writing: "Treated like a premium format blockbuster does not do a film like Mortal Kombat II any favours, its junkiness less charming and more distracting, a street fighter suddenly forced to go pay-per-view." Owen Gleiberman of Variety described the film as "an old-school video-game trash extravaganza: all sound and fury and flying bodies and jargony world-building, propped up by a sludgy excuse for a story."


== Sequel ==
In October 2025, during New York Comic Con, it was reported that a third film was in development, with Jeremy Slater returning as screenwriter.


== See also ==
List of films based on video games


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Mortal Kombat II at IMDb