Most Valuable Promotions (MVP) is a boxing and mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion company, established in 2021 by American professional boxer and influencer Jake Paul and his adviser Nakisa Bidarian. They primarily focus on boxing events and athlete management and are most famous for co-promoting the Amanda Serrano vs. Katie Taylor trilogy in partnership with Matchroom Boxing, as well as hosting the Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson bout individually.
MVP garnered international reporting for co-promoting the "historic" Katie Taylor vs. Amanda Serrano fight which was held in 2022, and that was the first women's boxing match to headline Madison Square Garden. DAZN and Reuters would go on to describe it as the 'biggest women's fight of all time'. The fight won the Sports Illustrated's Fight of the Year and The Ring magazine Event of the Year awards.


== History ==
In 2021, the promotion completed its first signing, with Puerto Rican boxer and seven-division world champion Amanda Serrano joining their stable.
Katie Taylor vs. Amanda Serrano, promoted by MVP with Eddie Hearn's Matchroom Boxing which was billed as "For History", took place in 2022 and was the first women's boxing match to headline Madison Square Garden. According to DAZN and Reuters it was the 'biggest women's fight of all time'. Among the most significant events of the year, the fight was awarded Fight of the Year by Sports Illustrated and Event of the Year by The Ring.
MVP and DAZN announced in 2023 a series of new events named 'Most Valuable Prospects' that would see up-and-coming boxers headlining DAZN events without pay-per-view. The first event was streamed on the 26th of May and it took place in the Caribe Royale Orlando in Orlando, Florida with a fight featuring Ashton Sylve against Adam Kipenga being the main event. Sylve won the fight against Kipenga by unanimous decision.
In 2024, MVP, with Netflix, promoted Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson at the AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. Paul emerged as the winner with a unanimous decision, with 65 million simultaneous viewers. The fight drew some criticism due to the significant age difference. The 31-year age difference between Tyson and Paul is the largest age difference in professional boxing history, much larger than the previous record of 24 years between Mike DiBiase (25) and Archie Moore (49), with Tyson being 58 and Paul 27 years old respectively at the time of the fight. Another point of criticism was how viewers watching on Netflix were met by "buffering issues", preventing many from watching.
The co-feature of the 2024 card was the Katie Taylor vs. Amanda Serrano rematch for the WBA, WBC, IBF, WBO, and  The Ring female light-welterweight titles, with Taylor winning by unanimous decision and retaining the title, however there was some controversy post-fight as Serrano accused Taylor of intentionally headbutting her during the fight. Taylor was deducted a point in the eighth round after previous warnings from the referee for headbutts. Later however, Serrano retracted her accusation, tweeting "In no way should I ever had said she did it purposely, it's her style that makes for them." Taylor's responded by saying "I certainly wasn't fighting dirty. It gets rough in there. It was an absolute slugfest, a war."
Amanda Serrano signed a lifetime contract with MVP in March 2025. Besides competing for the promotion, Serrano will later serve as a chairwoman for the company and look after the promotion's women's boxing initiatives. This development was prior to her next fight which was held on July 11, 2025, the latest in her trilogy against Katie Taylor. The bout took place in Madison Square Garden, and was promoted by MVP.
In April 2025, MVP also signed the 27 year old Ellie Scotney, who holds the IBF, WBO and The Ring super bantamweight titles. Scotney, undefeated as a professional with a record of 10–0, became the latest addition to MVP's women's boxing roster, which along with Serrano includes fighters such as Alycia Baumgardner and Shadasia Green. Baumgardner having signed with the promotion in March of the same year.
In August 2025, Ashton Sylve was released from his contract with MVP. This was seen as controversial by some, with Sylve himself writing "The way MVP handled this doesn’t sit right [with me]", as the release came after Sylve was knocked out by Lucas Bahdi, and only a few days after Bahdi was re-signed by MVP. 
On November 17, it was announced that MVP would promote Jake Paul vs. Anthony Joshua, set to take place on December 19, 2025 at the Kaseya Center in Miami, Florida, and to be broadcast on Netflix.
The promotion ran its first mixed martial arts event, MVP MMA: Rousey vs. Carano, on May 16, 2026. Its Netflix broadcast set the all-time U.S. viewership record for mixed martial arts, peaking at 11.6 million viewers.


== List of events ==


== Current stable ==


== Former talent ==


== See also ==
Jake Paul vs. Ben Askren
KSI vs Jake Paul
Misfits Boxing


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website