Project Hail Mary is a 2026 American epic science fiction comedy film produced and directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller and written by Drew Goddard, based on the 2021 novel by Andy Weir. It stars Ryan Gosling, who also produced the film; Sandra Hüller, James Ortiz, and Lionel Boyce appear in supporting roles. The film follows Ryland Grace, a school teacher who awakens aboard an interstellar spacecraft with no memory of how he got there.
Pre-production began in 2020, before Weir's novel was published. Goddard, who wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation of Weir's previous novel, The Martian (2015), returned for this film. Filming occurred throughout 2024 in the United Kingdom, both on location and in sets. All scenes aboard the spacecraft Hail Mary were filmed on a real practical set which was constructed for the film.
Project Hail Mary premiered in London on March 9, 2026, and was released in the United States by Amazon MGM Studios on March 20, 2026, with Sony Pictures Releasing International releasing in other territories. The film was a critical and commercial success, grossing $675.9 million worldwide, becoming the third highest-grossing film of 2026.


== Plot ==
In 2032, Ryland Grace wakes up from an induced coma on an interstellar spacecraft, suffering from amnesia. Grace learns that he is the sole survivor of the three-person crew on a spaceship launched towards the Tau Ceti system, 11.9 light-years from Earth.
Shown through flashbacks, Grace remembers that he is an American middle school science teacher and former molecular biologist. Before his ship's launch, scientists observed a trail of infrared light, named the "Petrova line", stretching from the Sun to Venus. A substance, dubbed "astrophage" is proliferating on the Sun's surface, dimming it. Scientists predict that astrophage will cause catastrophic global cooling on Earth, but captured a sample of it and brought it to Earth. Grace recalls that the head of the Petrova Taskforce, Eva Stratt, recruited him to study the astrophage sample. He discovered that astrophage is composed of single-celled organisms, absorbs electromagnetic radiation from the Sun and can expel it for propulsion; astrophage breeds on Venus using the planet's atmospheric carbon dioxide. Grace learnt how to breed astrophage on Earth.
Grace further recalls that astrophage was dimming all of the other stars in Earth's solar neighborhood, except for one: Tau Ceti. To investigate Tau Ceti, Grace became a key member of Stratt's Project Hail Mary, an international "long-shot" manned mission to send a spacecraft to Tau Ceti. Grace helped to breed astrophage fuel and design the scientific investigations that the crew will carry out. There was only enough astrophage fuel for a one-way trip: the crew was to send its research results back to Earth on space probes and then die in space.
Approaching Tau Ceti, Grace encounters an alien spacecraft that docks with the Hail Mary. It is made of a solid form of xenon, which Grace dubs xenonite. The ship's occupant is a rock-like, five-legged alien from a planet in the 40 Eridani A system; Grace calls it Rocky. He infers that Eridians "see" via echolocation and creates a machine translation system to interpret Rocky's musical language. Rocky is a mechanical engineer and also the sole survivor of a mission to stop astrophage. Neither can survive in the other's atmosphere, so Rocky enters the Hail Mary inside of a pressurized ball of xenonite. As Grace and Rocky work together, they develop a deep friendship.
Grace and Rocky discover that the planet Tau Ceti e, which Grace names "Adrian", harbors an organism, dubbed "taumoeba", that preys on astrophage, greatly reducing its population. Learning that Grace cannot return home, Rocky calls Grace brave and offers enough astrophage to refuel the Hail Mary for a return to Earth; the long-lived Rocky will return home 6 years more slowly than he had planned. Grace remembers that an astrophage explosion killed the original crew's scientist and the backup scientist. With no time to train a replacement, Stratt asked Grace to join the suicide mission. Grace, afraid, refused, arguing that he is untrained as an astronaut.
During a risky maneuver to gather taumoeba from Adrian's atmosphere, a fuel leak causes the Hail Mary to spin uncontrollably, rendering Grace unconscious. Rocky breaks out of his pressurized ball and saves Grace but is severely injured. While Rocky recovers, Grace learns how to selectively breed taumoeba to survive the nitrogen in Venus's atmosphere. Grace recalls that Stratt had him drugged and put aboard the ship. He realizes that he was not brave enough to volunteer. Rocky revives, and the two friends depart for their home planets.
En route to Earth, Grace discovers that the taumoeba evolved to escape their xenonite containers and are eating Hail Mary's astrophage fuel. Grace contains them on his ship but realizes that Rocky's ship, made of xenonite, would allow the taumoeba to consume all his fuel, stranding him and dooming his world. Grace chooses to rescue Rocky and the Eridians rather than return home, sending taumoeba to Earth via the probes.
Stratt receives the taumoeba to breed and stop astrophage. On Erid, Rocky's planet, Rocky arrives early to Grace's artificial biodome and tells him that Eridian scientists have prepared the Hail Mary to return to Earth. Grace says he will contemplate it. He begins his day, teaching science to eager Eridian children.


== Cast ==

Ryan Gosling as Ryland Grace, a middle-school science teacher and former molecular biologist on a mission to save humanity
Sandra Hüller as Eva Stratt, the head of the international task force behind Project Hail Mary
James Ortiz as Rocky, an alien Grace encounters on his journey. The character was effected through a puppet controlled by a team of five puppeteers led by Ortiz, dubbed the "Rockyteers", with Ortiz also providing the artificial voice assigned to him.
Ortiz also has an uncredited role as a television presenter
Lionel Boyce as Carl, a security personnel
Ken Leung as Yao Li-Jie, the Chinese commander of the Hail Mary spacecraft
Milana Vayntrub as Olesya Ilyukhina, a Russian engineer on board the Hail Mary
Priya Kansara as the voice of Mary, the Hail Mary's onboard computer
Malachi Kirby as Martin Dubois, the original scientist of the Hail Mary
Liz Kingsman as Annie Shapiro, a backup scientist of the Hail Mary
Mia Soteriou as Dr. Browne
Orion Lee as Dr. Li
Michelle Greenidge as Chimamanda
Eunice Huthart (the film's stunt coordinator), Damien de Froberville (co-president of Sony Pictures Animation), Ray Porter (the audiobook narrator), and Meryl Streep provided the rejected alternate voices for Rocky.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In March 2020, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was nearing a deal to acquire adaptation rights to the then-upcoming Andy Weir novel Project Hail Mary (2021), with Ryan Gosling set to star in and produce the film. The rights for the novel were acquired for $3 million. In May 2020, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller were hired to direct and produce the film. Due to Lord and Miller being unable to work on the screenplay because of commitments to Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023), Drew Goddard (who previously adapted Weir's 2011 novel The Martian into a 2015 film) was hired the following month to write the screenplay. In April 2024, Amazon MGM Studios, which acquired Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 2022, announced a possible 2026 release window for the film. In May, Sandra Hüller joined the cast, with Greig Fraser hired as cinematographer. Milana Vayntrub joined the cast the following month.


=== Filming ===

Principal photography began on June 3, 2024, in the United Kingdom and wrapped on October 26, 2024. Filming occurred at Shepperton Studios. Location filming took place at the South Parade Pier in Portsmouth, the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory in Cambridge, and Durdle Door and Man o' War Cove in Dorset.
The film was "filmed for IMAX" by using large-sensor Arri Alexa 65 cameras, which provide 6.5K (20 MP) of resolution, with an aspect ratio of 2.1:1, utilizing the whole sensor with anamorphic lenses rotated by 90 degrees to achieve the IMAX standard 1.43:1 aspect ratio. For regular presentations, the common 2:1 format (Univisium) was derived by cropping the top and bottom of the IMAX image. The film switches between taller and wider aspect ratios. When a scene takes place in the present, a taller aspect ratio is used – 1.43:1 for IMAX 15/70mm or Dual Laser, 1.85:1 for Xenon or Single Laser and 2.00:1 for non-IMAX presentations. For scenes in the past, an aspect ratio of 2.39:1, a standard ratio for anamorphic process cinematography, was achieved with the regular use of anamorphic lenses.
In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Miller mentioned that no chroma keying was used in the film, with the entire set being shot practically. Cinematographer Greig Fraser had previously collaborated with VFX supervisor Paul Lambert on the Dune films; their disdain for green and blue screens, which impacts lighting and visuals through color spill, led them to use blackouts and grey screens on the film instead. Miller had previously stated that VFX was used to depict the spaceship from the outside, while shots of Gosling in space were shot against a black or varying color backdrop.
NASA provided support through both the input of scientific experts and astronaut Kjell N. Lindgren visiting Gosling during filming to share insights on human spaceflight.


=== Post-production ===
The film's visual effects were provided by Framestore (which also collaborated on the film adaptation of The Martian), Industrial Light & Magic (ILM), Sony Pictures Imageworks, BUF and Wylie Co. VFX, with Paul Lambert and Mags Sarnowska serving as visual effects supervisors. Joel Negron edited the film.
While puppeteer James Ortiz voiced Rocky during filming with Gosling, it was initially thought that he would be replaced by a more high-profile actor. However, Lord and Miller felt that Ortiz's performance could not be improved upon during screenings of the film. Lord praised the collaboration between visual and practical effects in the creation of the character Rocky's performance:

Rocky was built and designed by the legendary Neal Scanlan and his creature shop and is performed by puppeteering legend James Ortiz and his team, who were on set with Ryan in every scene. Rocky's performance is a beautiful collaboration between James and the other Rockyteers on set and the wonderful animators at Framestore led by the funny soulful Arslan Elver. Miller also noted that Rocky was built by Neal Scanlan and the Creature Shop team and by the end of the film shots with Rocky are about 50% VFX animation and 50% puppetry.
The digitally shot and produced film was transferred to film stock and then re-digitized in order to achieve the "warmth" of analog film. The initial test screening of the film was 3 hours and 45 minutes long and was cut down to the final length due to feedback from the screenings.


== Music ==

It was announced at San Diego Comic-Con that Daniel Pemberton would score the film. Pemberton worked with Lord and Miller on Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) and its 2023 sequel, which they produced. This is the first Lord and Miller film to not be scored by Mark Mothersbaugh.
The score, consisting of 38 tracks, was released digitally on March 20, 2026. The film also includes fourteen other songs, including "Sign of the Times" by Harry Styles, "Two of Us" by the Beatles, "Rainbows" by Dennis Wilson and "Gracias a la vida" sung by Mercedes Sosa.


== Marketing ==

The first trailer was released on June 30, 2025. It was the most viewed trailer for any original film in the first week of its release, accumulating 400 million views globally. Lego released a model of the Hail Mary spacecraft on March 1, 2026, as part of the Lego Icons series.


== Release ==


=== Theatrical ===
Project Hail Mary was released on March 20, 2026, by Amazon MGM Studios in the US and Canada, and Sony Pictures Releasing International in all other countries. It was also released in select IMAX theaters, with a 1.43:1 aspect ratio.


=== Home media ===
The film was released on digital streaming platforms on May 12, 2026. It is scheduled to be released on 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray, Blu-ray, and DVD on August 11, 2026.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
As of May 26, 2026, Project Hail Mary has grossed $340.5 million in the US and Canada, and $335.4 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $675.9 million.
In the US and Canada, Project Hail Mary was released on March 20, 2026, and was projected to gross $63–65 million in North America from 4,007 theaters in its opening weekend. Initially, publications estimated that the film would gross $45–55 million. After grossing $31 million on opening day, including $12 million in previews, the film debuted to $80.6 million in the US and Canada and $60.4 million overseas for a worldwide total of $141 million, becoming Amazon MGM Studios' biggest debut to date. In its second weekend the film made $54.1 million (a drop of 32.8%), remaining in first. It was dethroned by The Super Mario Galaxy Movie in its third weekend, grossing $31.7 million. In Japan, the film became the highest-grossing foreign film of 2026 in terms of box office revenue attendance on its first day of release.


=== Critical response ===
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 94% of 408 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 8.2/10. The website's consensus reads: "A visually dazzling space odyssey that's carried along effortlessly by the gravitational pull of Ryan Gosling at his most winning, Project Hail Mary is a near-miraculous fusion of smarts and heart." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 77 out of 100, based on 60 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an "A" on an A+ to F scale. The film received an average rating of 8 out of 10 from Cine21.
G. Allen Johnson of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it "a masterpiece of a family popcorn movie, with eye-popping hand-crafted production design and outstanding creature design and puppetry work."
Randy Myers of The Mercury News gave the film a 3.5/4 rating, writing, "While you can't help but marvel at the visuals and applaud the commitment of Gosling's endearing performance, what also makes Project Hail Mary so gosh darn lovable is that it imbues us with child-like wonder from scenes that pay homage to such classics as E.T., Flight of the Navigator and, yes, Rocky."
Robbie Collin of The Telegraph concluded in his review, "Does it have many original ideas of its own? Perhaps not. But its greatest hits mixtape of other people's has been compiled with such flair – as well as a sound comprehension of why they worked so well the first time – that it's hard not to be swept up regardless." Barry Hertz of The Globe and Mail shared a similar opinion, writing, "At almost every turn, Project Hail Mary attempts to convince you that it is groundbreaking, innovative filmmaking. But in actuality, the movie lands as a grand act of cinematic recycling – the fusing together of familiar, comforting bits and pieces into something determined to please crowds and warm hearts."
Amy Nicholson of the Los Angeles Times wrote, "While Stanley Kubrick's unsentimental 2001: A Space Odyssey inspired the iPad, Lord and Miller want to inspire a better version of us." Brian Truitt of USA Today gave the film a four out of four rating, stating that "Project Hail Mary is one of those old-school popcorn movies with big ideas, the kind of film that Steven Spielberg and George Lucas would have made back in the day and kids of all ages would have obsessed over and bought the toys." Ryan Cooper of The American Prospect wrote that the film portrayed a "shockingly realistic view of heroism" and was "one of the rare films that is quite a bit better than the book."
Peter Bradshaw wrote in The Guardian, "Gosling is an effortlessly charming screen player, and he keeps it watchable, though the film itself has moments of dullness and a sort of puppyish silliness ... Perhaps refreshingly, the film doesn't aim for the stunned awe and rapture of, say, Christopher Nolan's Interstellar or even Jon Spaihts' underrated Passengers, but it does have the classic sci-fi spacecraft tropes: the huge, mysterious architecture with its vertiginous tunnels in which legacy pop music is played to soothe the inhabitants." GVSU anthropology professor Deana L. Weibel praised Grace's intellectual humility in the film.
Nicholas Barber of BBC named it one of the best films of 2026, writing:

Project Hail Mary is an unusual science-fiction blockbuster in that it's mostly about people using their brains to solve problems [...] Does that approach sound a bit dry and academic? If so, rest assured that Project Hail Mary is touching and inspiring – and surprisingly fun [...] it's directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, who take a complicated, potentially bleak narrative and make it as fast-paced and cheerful as their animated hit The Lego Movie. Meanwhile, Ryan Gosling brings all of his goofball charm to the role of an amnesiac biologist who is trying to save the world.


=== Accolades ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Project Hail Mary at IMDb
Project Hail Mary at Rotten Tomatoes