Ratanlal Bhagatram Choudary (18 April 1949 – 5 May 2026) was an Indian film producer who worked in several film industries, predominantly in Tamil and Telugu along with a few films in Malayalam and Hindi. He was the founder of the production company Super Good Films.


== Career ==
R. B. Choudary hailed from a Rajasthani family. He worked in the steel, exported and jewellery industries before entering film production. He started his career as a producer with Malayalam film industry first and produced a few films under "Super" banner. In 1989, he entered Tamil film industry and produced films on 'Super' banner in partnership with R. Mohan, who manufactured "Good Knight" mosquito mats. When they decided to part ways, Choudary borrowed good from 'Good Knight' and modified it as 'Super Good' films.


== Personal life and death ==
Choudhary married Mahjabeen, a Tamilian woman. and had four sons: Suresh produces films at their home production Super Good Films, Jeevan is a businessman who runs a steel company, Jithan Ramesh  is an actor and producer, and the youngest son Jiiva is an actor. 
He was the president of the Sri Seervi Samaj Mahasabha in Tamil Nadu. 
Choudhary died in a car collision near Beawar, Rajasthan on 5 May 2026 while on route to a family wedding with his nephew and driving was elder brothers son Gautam. In an attempt to avoid hitting a herd of cows, the driver swerved the car into a roadside barrier.


== Filmography ==


== Awards ==
A list of awards received by R. B. Choudary include:

Filmfare Awards
1990 – Filmfare Award for Best Film – Tamil - Pudhu Vasantham
1999 – Filmfare Award for Best Film – Telugu - Raja
2001 – Filmfare Award for Best Film – Tamil - Aanandham
Tamil Nadu State Film Awards
1990 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (1st) - Pudhu Vasantham
1991 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award Special Prize - Cheran Pandiyan
1993 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (3rd) - Gokulam
1994 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (1st) - Naatamai
1997 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (1st) - Suryavamsam
1999 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (2nd) - Thullatha Manamum Thullum 
2001 – Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film (3rd) - Aanandham
Cinema Express Awards
1994 – Cinema Express Award for Best Film – Tamil - Naatamai
1997 – Cinema Express Award for Best Film – Tamil - Suryavamsam
1998 – Cinema Express Award for Best Film – Tamil - Unnidathil Ennai Koduthen
2001 – Cinema Express Award for Best Film – Tamil - Aanandham


== References ==


== External links ==
R. B. Choudary at IMDb