The Devil Wears Prada 2 is a 2026 American comedy drama film directed by David Frankel and written by Aline Brosh McKenna. A sequel to the 2006 film The Devil Wears Prada, it sees Meryl Streep, Anne Hathaway, Emily Blunt, and Stanley Tucci reprising their roles, joined by Justin Theroux, Lucy Liu, and Kenneth Branagh. Set two decades after the events of the first film, it follows Andy Sachs (Hathaway) as she helps Miranda Priestly (Streep) navigate a new media landscape and corporate threats to the survival of Runway magazine.
Despite the success of The Devil Wears Prada, Streep and Hathaway were initially hesitant on the prospects of a sequel. Development on the film began in July 2024, with all four leading actors – Streep, Hathaway, Blunt, and Tucci – signing on to reprise their roles, and Frankel and McKenna returning to direct and write, respectively. Additional castings for new characters were revealed between then and November 2025. Principal photography took place from June to October 2025 in Manhattan and Milan, with additional filming in Newark, New Jersey.
The Devil Wears Prada 2 premiered on April 20, 2026, in New York, and was released in theaters in the United States by 20th Century Studios on May 1. It received generally positive reviews from critics and has grossed $608 million against a $100 million production budget, making it the fifth highest-grossing film of 2026.


== Plot ==
Two decades after leaving her position as an assistant at Runway magazine, Andrea "Andy" Sachs has become a respected reporter in NYC. However, her entire newsroom is abruptly laid off by text during an awards gala. Meanwhile, Miranda Priestly, Andy's old Runway boss, is under fire for publishing a puff piece about a brand that uses sweatshop labor. 
To improve the magazine's credibility, Irv Ravitz, the owner of Runway's parent company Elias-Clarke and Miranda's boss, hires Andy as the features editor without Miranda's consent, to her annoyance. An uncharacteristically listless Miranda has trouble navigating modern fashion media. Although some of her tyrannical office behaviors remain, HR complaints have blunted her imperiousness. On the other hand, she enjoys a comfortable relationship with her husband, Stuart.
Miranda's right-hand man Nigel explains that nobody reads Runway's print edition anymore and the brand has been forced to embrace online clickbait and cheaply-made short-form content to maintain profit and relationships with advertisers. One key advertiser is Dior, which employs Emily Charlton, who used to work as Miranda's assistant when Andy worked there. Emily leverages the controversy over the Runway puff piece to secure her own, which Miranda assigns to Andy. During the interview, Emily and Andy argue about how modern fashion raises prices and shuts out middle-class consumers. 
After writing serious articles that gain minimal traction, Andy improves her standing at Runway by brokering a coveted interview with Sasha Barnes, the reclusive divorcée of a Silicon Valley billionaire. Irv promises to make Miranda global head of content at Elias-Clarke, but dies from a heart attack at his 75th birthday party before he can officially announce the promotion. His son, Jay, takes over Elias-Clarke publications, but lacks Irv's sentimental attachment to either fashion or Runway. He puts Miranda's promotion on hold while bringing in management consultants to recommend cost cuts. To Andy's surprise, Miranda bears with it. Meanwhile, Andy's relationship with her new boyfriend Peter sours when she unintentionally insults his job as an apartment renovator while fretting she may lose her own position. Considering her options, Andy explores writing a tell-all book about Miranda with a publisher, who offers her a lucrative contract, but Andy is conflicted. 
During Milan Fashion Week, Nigel throws what may be his last big Runway gala, starring Lady Gaga. Andy devises a plan to save Runway by convincing a wealthy patron to buy it from Jay. The patron is Benji, Sasha's ex-husband and Emily's current boyfriend. Andy and Emily reveal the plan to Miranda, who is furious because she knows Emily plans to take her position at Runway. Miranda admits that she pushed Emily out of Runway because Emily lacks creative vision. Miranda tries to take the loss with grace, but while talking to Benji, she is alarmed by his vision of Runway's staff being replaced by AI. 
To prevent Benji and Emily from destroying Runway, Miranda directs Andy to find a competing buyer. Andy convinces Sasha to buy not just Runway but all of Elias-Clarke, and Jay accepts her offer, pulling out of his deal with Benji. Miranda realizes she has taken Nigel for granted over the years. To make amends, she invites him to deliver the gala's keynote speech instead of her, so she and Andy can finalize the deal with Sasha, who gives Miranda the promotion Irv promised her.
As the Runway staff return to New York, Miranda admits to Andy that the latter's idealism inspired her to fight back. She also reveals that she knows about Andy's tell-all book plans and encourages her to write it, including the negative aspects of Miranda's life. Andy reconciles with Peter and a defeated Emily, who has broken up with Benji. Nigel reveals he was the one who prompted Irv to rehire Andy, as he has always liked her. Miranda gives Andy a nicer office and returns to work with a renewed imperiousness.


== Cast ==

Meryl Streep as Miranda Priestly, the editor-in-chief of the Runway fashion magazine
Anne Hathaway as Andrea "Andy" Sachs, a journalist and Miranda's former second assistant who becomes the new Runway features editor
Emily Blunt as Emily Charlton, Miranda's former first assistant, who is now a senior executive at Dior
Stanley Tucci as Nigel Kipling, Miranda's longtime right hand
Justin Theroux as Benji Barnes, Emily's boyfriend
Kenneth Branagh as Stuart Simmons, Miranda's new husband
Lucy Liu as Sasha Barnes, Benji's ex-wife
B. J. Novak as Jay Ravitz, the finance-bro heir to the Elias-Clarke publishing house
Simone Ashley as Amari Mari, Miranda's current first assistant
Tracie Thoms as Lily, Andy's best friend
Tibor Feldman as Irv Ravitz, Runway chairman, owner of its parent company Elias-Clarke, and Jay's father
Patrick Brammall as Peter, Andy's love interest
Caleb Hearon as Charlie, Miranda's current second assistant
Helen J. Shen as Jin Chao, Andy's assistant
Rachel Bloom as Talia, Andy's friend
Larry Mitchell as Mack, Andy's journalist friend
George C. Wolfe as Paul, a Runway editor
Pauline Chalamet as Ilana Poole, a Runway editor
Wes McGee as Frank, Emily's ex-husband
Lady Gaga appears as a fictionalized version of herself who has a history with Miranda. The following personalities also make cameo appearances as themselves:


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In 2013, Lauren Weisberger wrote and published Revenge Wears Prada: The Devil Returns, a sequel to her 2003 novel The Devil Wears Prada which had been adapted into the 2006 film. However, it did not seem likely an adaptation of that novel, or any sequel, would be made, as starring cast members Meryl Streep and Anne Hathaway were not eager to do such a film. Streep reportedly said she was not interested, while Hathaway stated she would like to work with the same people on "something totally different".
In July 2024, it was reported that Walt Disney Studios, the parent division of 20th Century Studios, was interested in developing a sequel. Negotiations began that month with Aline Brosh McKenna returning to write the screenplay, and Streep, Hathaway, Emily Blunt and Stanley Tucci reprising their roles from the first film. A $100 million budget was allotted for production, almost triple what the original film cost to make, unadjusted for inflation. David Frankel, who returned as director, said that most of the difference was accounted for by actors' salaries and "[we had] basically the same budget for making the movie as we did the first one." It was later revealed that Streep, Hathaway, and Blunt had pay parity on the sequel, each receiving $12.5 million upfront plus backends dependent on the film's performance with potential to ultimately earn over $20 million each.


=== Casting and filming ===
Principal photography began on June 30, 2025, with Frankel again directing, and Kenneth Branagh joining the cast. In July, it was announced that Tracie Thoms and Tibor Feldman would also reprise their roles, with Simone Ashley, Lucy Liu, Justin Theroux, B. J. Novak, Pauline Chalamet, Rachel Bloom and Patrick Brammall as new additions to the cast.
Streep, Hathaway, and Tucci were spotted filming in Manhattan during the week of July 21, 2025. Blunt was spotted for the first time a week later. Brammel and Hathaway were spotted filming a scene together on August 5. Sydney Sweeney was spotted on set with Blunt on August 7. An important airport scene was shot at Newark on September 10. Tucci and Streep filmed at Dolce & Gabbana's Milan Fashion Week show on September 27. Filming took place in Milan, Italy, from October 6 to 18. In October, Donatella Versace was seen on set filming a cameo appearance, while Lady Gaga was announced to be having a role. Ashley finished filming her scenes on October 17. Filming officially wrapped on October 20. By November, Caleb Hearon, Helen J. Shen, Conrad Ricamora and Calum Harper were also announced to have been cast. In April 2026, it was revealed that Sweeney, who was meant to cameo as herself, was cut from the finished film.
Some of the filming locations attracted crowds of onlookers when social media reported that scenes were being filmed there, which had not happened with the first film. According to production designer Jess Gonchor, who also returned from the original, it was "a mob scene" at the American Museum of Natural History, again standing in for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Fortunately, he says, the production needed a crowd for the scene anyway, so it helped. A large crowd in the Meatpacking District also watched the filming of the scene where Andy boards the Hampton Jitney. "The shoot was the middle of summer and it was pretty special to see people embracing the movie like that. It never disrupted the filming but it did make everyone feel like the Beatles." Overzealous paparazzi however did disrupt filming by fighting among each other while Hathaway and Tucci were doing a scene, causing them to break character.


=== Sets and locations ===
Gonchor, the production designer for the first film, returned for the sequel. The Runway offices were again sets built at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, but this time, he told Architectural Digest, they were eight times larger, showing the space the original was meant only to suggest. "With the new offices, we're creating more of a visual story. We opened the whole thing up so it wasn't just about Miranda and the assistants." The former McGraw-Hill building at 1221 Avenue of the Americas again served as the exterior and lobby of the Elias-Clarke building. A large room was dressed as the cafeteria. 

"Saying the words 'The Devil Wears Prada' opened a lot of doors for us this time around and got us access into places we hadn't been able to before", Gonchor said. In New York, that meant the production was allowed to film at the Dior boutique at 57th Street and Madison Avenue before it was opened, as well as the lobby of the Waldorf Astoria hotel, which had been closed for six years of renovations. For Emily's office, newly-opened space in the Hudson Yards development was used. Marc Jacobs allowed the production into his fitting rooms. The crew got permission to use the same townhouse that had been Miranda's in the first film.
While Manhattan's Woolworth Mansion stood in for the interiors of the hotel rooms in Milan, many other scenes set in Milan were filmed on location and in other places in Italy. The Palazzo Parigi & Grand Spa Milano, where the cast stayed while shooting, lent its exterior and lobby to be used for filming, leading Tucci and Theroux to have martinis there between scenes. Lady Gaga's appearance was originally planned for the Piazza del Duomo, but was moved to the Accademia di Brera to prevent word of her appearance from spreading. The dinner scene in the refectory of Santa Maria delle Grazie was filmed on a set built to three-quarters scale, including a hand-painted replication of Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper, by a team of craftsmen led by a woman who manages set design for a Roman opera house. Since they were not allowed to use the actual painting, "we had to really study that thing", Gonchor says. On several private tours, "we were allowed to take our time and figure out how we wanted to replicate it—just myself and a couple other people, no crowds. It was a really special thing to get to do." After a lengthy boat tour of Lake Como, Gonchor chose Villa del Balbiano as Benji's villa. "[W]e knew that Emily and Benji would arrive by boat, and we also wanted viewers to see the house from the lake, too, so that they were really brought into this lavish environment.


== Music ==

The film's soundtrack album was released through 20th Century Studios and Interscope Records day-and-date with the film's North American debut. It is led by the single "Runway" by Lady Gaga and Doechii, which was previewed on the film's second trailer released on April 6, 2026, ahead of its official release on April 9. Lady Gaga also contributes two more original songs: "Shape of a Woman", which she performs in the film, and "Glamorous Life". There is also a scores-only soundtrack by composer Theodore Shapiro, returning from the first film, featuring 20 tracks and totaling 39 minutes.


== Release ==


=== Marketing ===
The first teaser trailer was released on November 12, 2025. It was reportedly the most-viewed comedy trailer in 15 years, with 181.5 million views in its first 24 hours alone. The film's color grading and lighting — as presented in the trailer — sparked numerous comments on social media and in the press, lamenting the widespread adoption of the "Netflix look" across the film industry (standardized colors, loss of contrast, resulting in a smooth and flat visual rendering). The film's first full trailer, released on February 1, 2026, recorded 222 million views within its first 24 hours, which 20th described as the most-viewed trailer in the studio's history. In April 2026, Anna Wintour, the former editor-in-chief of Vogue and the purported inspiration for Streep's character Miranda Priestly, appeared on the cover of the magazine alongside the actress. Later that month, Streep and Hathaway traveled to South Korea to promote the film, and participated in an interview with singer Jang Won-young.
The marketing campaign for The Devil Wears Prada 2 was reportedly one of the largest film promotional efforts ever undertaken by Disney. The Hollywood Reporter estimated the campaign's promotional value at $250 million, supported by brand partnerships with Dior, Google, The Coca-Cola Company, Grey Goose, Mercedes-Benz, L'Oréal, Zillow, TRESemmé, and United Airlines.


=== Theatrical release ===
The Devil Wears Prada 2 premiered at the Lincoln Center in New York City on April 20, 2026, with the event being live-streamed on Disney+ and Hulu. Another premiere was held two days later in London. It premiered in Tokyo at Roppongi Hills on April 24. 
The film was released in theaters in the United States on May 1, 2026. Disney had originally scheduled Avengers: Doomsday for that date, but replaced it with Prada after the film was fast-tracked during production.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
As of May 25, 2026, The Devil Wears Prada 2 has grossed $200 million in the United States and Canada, and $408 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $608 million.
In the United States and Canada, it was projected to gross $75–80 million from 4,150 theaters during the opening weekend, with some estimates going as high as $100 million. The film made $32.5 million during its opening day, including $10 million in Thursday previews. It ended up debuting to $76.7 million during its opening weekend, topping the box office and outgrossing the original film's opening of $27.5 million in 2006, almost tripling its earning or doubling it when adjusted for inflation, and becoming the fourth-biggest debut for a 2026 film. It was also the highest domestic opening weekend for Streep, beating the $90 million start of Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again (2018).
Internationally, the film was projected to debut to around $100 million from 35 countries. It made $27.5 million internationally during its opening day, which added up to $114.6 million globally, marking the best opening day of 2026 in 16 countries. It ended up debuting to $156.6 million internationally during its opening weekend for a total of $233.6 million. It marked the second best worldwide opening for a 2026 Motion Picture Association film, behind The Super Mario Galaxy Movie ($372.5 million). It was also the highest opening weekend for Streep and Blunt, both globally and internationally, beating Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again and Oppenheimer (2023), respectively. It opened at number one in almost all major markets and marked the highest-grossing weekends of 2026 in multiple countries.


=== Critical response ===
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 78% of 320 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 6.6/10. The website's consensus reads: "Meryl Streep still wears Miranda Priestly like a finely-tailored suit in this sinfully enjoyable sequel, which is dressed to the nines in off-the-rack wish fulfillment and some trenchant observations about the state of modern media." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 63 out of 100, based on 57 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale, up from the first film's "B".
Justin Chang of The New Yorker wrote that the film is "… selling a truckload of preposterous goods, but it sells them awfully well, with unfeigned assurance, conviction, and the appropriate ratio of cynicism to hope." David Sims of The Atlantic wrote, "It has plenty of breezy fun probing the dilemmas of modern media, without abandoning the glitz that made the original so enduring." Odie Henderson of The Boston Globe wrote, "Miranda is given more depth this time, which softens her just a tad, but it forces the viewer to root for her success. That would bug me, but The Devil Wears Prada 2 successfully gives journalists a bigger villain to hiss at and resent." Clarisse Loughrey of The Independent wrote that the film "… hits painfully home, and perpetual job insecurity is hardly exclusive to the media world. Yet even for those who can't relate, there's still plenty of the indulgent, fondant pleasures to take part in."
In a negative review, Moira MacDonald of The Seattle Times wrote that the film "… gives us a lot to look at, and Hathaway and Blunt in particular are a pleasure, but it's flat champagne: maybe worth drinking in a pinch, but unsatisfying." Randy Myers of The Mercury News wrote, "Yes, it is indeed a pleasure to hang out with these characters again, and there are a few good laughs here and there. But The Devil Wears Prada 2 feels like it came off the rack before it was ready. It feels about as groundbreaking as florals in spring." The Globe and Mail's Jehanna Schneller opined that unlike the original film, The Devil Wears Prada 2 "has zero idea what it's about", in particular seeing its social commentary as soft and inconsistent. Saul Sugarman of The Bold Italic wrote that "the first film drew back the curtain on Anna Wintour's life as a busybody who ruled Vogue with an iron fist," but that "twenty years on, there's no drama left to mine, only product to sell."


== Controversies ==


=== Allegations of anti-Asian racism ===

On April 16, 2026, 20th Century Studios released a promotional clip for the film on its official YouTube channel, featuring Hathaway's character Andy alongside her East Asian assistant, Jin Chao, portrayed by Chinese-American actress Helen J. Shen. Shen's character drew criticism for its alleged use of racist tropes, as online observers noted that the character's name bore phonetic resemblance to "ching chong", a racial slur historically used to mock the Chinese language and people. Critics further observed that the character was portrayed wearing comparatively dowdy clothing and glasses, in contrast to other characters, and was shown reciting her academic achievements, which they interpreted as reinforcing the "nerdy bookworm" stereotype often associated with Asian individuals. The Asian American Foundation (TAAF) stated "[it's] unfortunate that offensive stereotypes continue to color how Asian American communities are perceived today, whether spread intentionally or not".
According to the South China Morning Post, the character's name was initially mistakenly reported as "Chin Chou", which further resembled the pronunciation of the racial slur and contributed to its widespread circulation on social media. The controversy sparked online backlash and debate across mainland China, Japan, South Korea, and Hong Kong, with calls to boycott the film spreading on the Chinese internet. It has also been widely reported by Asian media, including Hong Kong's South China Morning Post, Japan's Sankei Shinbun, and South Korea's The Chosun Daily and The Korea Times.
In response to the controversy, the writer McKenna stated that the character Jin Chao was named after a childhood friend and is a "very dimensional character", adding that she is her "love letter to all the wonderful Gen Z assistants [she's] had who are so enterprising and intelligent". Korean-American filmmaker Joseph Kahn also commented on the controversy but pushed back on many of the criticisms stating "[Jin's] outfit is actually very couture in a film about fashion. Her glasses and hair clips are of the moment. The body shape disparity comes from Anne Hathaway who mandated there would be "diversity of sizes" which could either be taken as genuine virtue signaling or an actress wanting to be the skinniest and tallest onscreen. Nevertheless, the Asian character is being depicted as a fashionable, striver in the fashion world with typical Gen Z neurodivergency".


=== Italian dubbing ===
Although all the Italian actors who had done the voices for the original film when it was dubbed reprised their roles for the sequel, some viewers in Italy were unsatisfied with the Italian dub. Maria Pia Di Meo, the voice of characters played by Streep in every Italian-dubbed film of hers for many years, was 86 at the time of the release of Prada 2, ten years older than Streep, and some viewers said she sounded distinctly older than Miranda looked. More generally, some lines took longer to say in Italian than in English, resulting in a notable lack of synchronization with the characters' mouths.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
The Devil Wears Prada 2 at IMDb