UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs. Pyfer (also known as UFC Fight Night 271) was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on March 28, 2026, at Climate Pledge Arena in Seattle, Washington, United States.


== Background ==
The event marked the promotion's fifth visit to Seattle and first since UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs. Song in February 2025.
A middleweight bout between former two-time UFC Middleweight Champion Israel Adesanya and Joe Pyfer headlined the event.
A women's strawweight bout between Nicolle Caliari and promotional newcomer Caroline Foro was originally scheduled for this event. However, Caliari withdrew for undisclosed reasons and was replaced by Stephanie Luciano. Foro then withdrew as well and was replaced by Alexia Thainara. According to Foro's team, she tested positive for a diuretic that is not on the approved substance list during an out‑of‑competition drug test earlier in the year, which they stated was not taken intentionally. Subsequently, Luciano withdrew due to an undisclosed injury and was replaced by Bruna Brasil, setting up a rematch between Brasil and Thainara. The two previously fought at an independent promotion in November 2019, where Brasil won by guillotine‑choke submission in the third round.
A heavyweight bout between Marcin Tybura and Valter Walker was scheduled for the event. However, Walker withdrew due to a foot fracture and was replaced by promotional newcomer Tyrell Fortune.
A welterweight bout between The Ultimate Fighter: Live lightweight winner Michael Chiesa and Carlston Harris was scheduled for the event. However, Harris withdrew due to visa issues and was replaced by Niko Price. The bout served as the retirement fight for both Chiesa and Price.
A featherweight bout between Road to UFC Season 3 featherweight winner Zhu Kangjie and fellow promotional newcomer Márcio Barbosa was scheduled for the event. However, Zhu withdrew due to a broken nose, so the bout was cancelled.
During the event's broadcast, the inaugural UFC Flyweight Champion (also former ONE Flyweight World Champion) Demetrious Johnson was announced as the next "modern wing" UFC Hall of Fame inductee during International Fight Week festivities in Las Vegas this summer.


== Results ==


== Bonus awards ==
The following fighters received $100,000 bonuses. The other finishes received $25,000 additional bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Tofiq Musayev vs. Ignacio Bahamondes
Performance of the Night: Joe Pyfer and Alexa Grasso


== See also ==

2026 in UFC
List of current UFC fighters
List of UFC events


== References ==