Youth is a 2026 Indian Tamil-language romantic comedy film written and directed by Ken Karunas, in his directorial debut, who also enacts the lead role. The cast also includes Suraj Venjaramoodu, Devadarshini, Anishma Anilkumar, Meenakshi Dinesh and Priyanshi Yadav (in her lead Tamil debut).
Youth was released in theatres on 19 March 2026 to positive reviews from critics and was blockbuster at the box office.


== Plot ==
Praveen is a 16 year old carefree boy who enters adolescence, determined to find the love of his life before his school life ends. He lives with his father Unnikrishnan, a bakery owner and his mother Saroja, who loves him dearly and has high expectations for him. He builds a notorious reputation at school and misbehaves a lot.
One day, he meets Preshika from the other class while being punished to stand outside with his friends. They both interact for some time and Praveen starts having a crush on her. Preshika tells him that it's better if they don't interact because people are assuming they're lovers and she doesn't want her strict police father harming him. Praveen ends up upset but finds out that Preshika likes him back after a hilarious encounter with his rivals Mani, Mukesh and their gang. After Praveen interacts with Preshika in her van, they fall in love. Anugraha finds out about this and panics, because her love interest Mukesh said that if Mani, who has a one-sided crush on Preshika and Preshika get together, Mukesh and Anu could also get together. She tells all of this to her friend Sai Navya, and they both are determined to break them up. 
Preshika informs Praveen that she will be away for a week as she is going to her native due to the sickness of her grandmother. She tells Praveen that She'll try messaging him during her absence. Praveen goes to a net center to message Preshika. She doesn't respond to him. Sonal sends him a friend request and Praveen asks her to meet her at the canteen the next day. He is immediately attracted to her after seeing her beauty. He takes advantage of Preshika's absence and engages in romantic moments with Sonal. During the annual day, Preshika surprises Praveen and amidst of them talking, Sonal calls Praveen and Praveen asks Preshika if she's okay with him engaging with Sonal to which Preshika agrees. But after seeing the romantic banter they do, Preshika feels suspicious and upset. The next day, Sonal makes Praveen feed her a bite of his fried rice and Preshika confronts Praveen about this, which causes a strain in their relationship. Praveen tried rejecting Sonal but fails to do so and hugs her. Anu and Sai Navya confront Praveen with Preshika . At the same time, a twist occurs where it shows Sonal to be Anu's and Sai's friend and they sent Sonal to separate Preshika and Praveen. Encouraged by Anu and Sai Navya, Preshika slaps Praveen which gets witnessed by Unnikrishnan.
Praveen fears Unnikrishnan might do something to him but to his surprise, he acts as if nothing happened. At the Alappuzha tour organized by his school, he and his friends tease and bully Sonal as a revenge, leading to Praveen getting confronted by the class leader, Kanagavalli alias Kanaga. Praveen and Kanaga go from being rivals to close friends. Praveen develops feelings for Kanaga and comes to a conclusion that she might like him back too.
Encouraged by his friends, Praveen confesses his love for Kanaga during their farewell but is met with a harsh rejection from Kanaga, she says that she viewed him as her close friend and nothing more than that. Praveen is heartbroken and at the same time, finds out that his rival Siddharth assaulted Praveen's friends. He engages in a brutal fight with Siddharth and his gang, leading to trouble in the principal's office. Saroja gets panicked and has a mild heart attack. Unnikrishnan outright blames Praveen for what happened with Saroja and slaps him.
Praveen comes back to school. Kanaga calls him and tells him that she has liked Praveen but rejected him due to his failures and mischiefs throughout 12th grade. She offers him to pass the public exam so that she'll accept his love proposal. However, Praveen not only passes the exams but secures a 9th rank and becomes an all-round scorer. He rejects Kanaga and tells her that he doesn't wish to have a love with expectations. He listens to his father's rants about his struggle faced before and after marrying Saroja and realizes that the love Unnikrishnan and Saroja have is the purest form of love. He reconciles with Preshika as friends and Sonal, Anu and Sai Navya apologize to him for what they did to him and Preshika. Unnikrishnan also reveals that he didn't do anything to Praveen when Preshika slapped him as he had the same effect before with his ex Andrea during the year 1985. The film ends, saying that it was dedicated to the parents.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
The film was officially announced in October 2025 under the tentative title Production 01, as it the debut production of Paarvathaa. The film was initially titled School Days. Principal photography took place from the same month to December, predominantly in Chennai. The film has music composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar, cinematography handled by Viki and editing by Nash.


== Music ==

The soundtrack is composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar and released through his own label.
The first single "Mutta Kalakki" was released on 7 February 2026. The second single "Paranthene Penne" was released on 19 February 2026. The third single "Aasa Pulla" was released on 28 February 2026. The fourth single "Loveah Sollitalea" was released on 13 March 2026. The fifth single "Jilpanso" was released on 18 March 2026. The complete album was released on 25 March 2026.

In addition to the Tamil original soundtrack, the song "Punnagai Neram Othuku", composed by Deva for the 2000 film Appu, the song "Manmadhane Nee", composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja for the 2004 film Manmadhan, the song "Pottu Thakku", composed by Srikanth Deva for the 2004 film Kuthu and the 2015 Indie song "Naan Aasa Patta Ponnu Peru Monisha", composed by A. C. Dhinakaran are reused in the Tamil version of the film. 
In addition to the Telugu original soundtrack, the song "Gaajuvaka Pilla", composed by R. P. Patnaik for the 2001 film Nuvvu Nenu, the song "Manmadhuda Nee", composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja for the 2004 film Manmadha and the song "Calcutta Pan Vesina", composed by Mani Sharma for the 2003 film Raghavendra, are reused in the Telugu version of the film.


== Release ==


=== Theatrical ===
Youth was theatrically released on 19 March 2026. It was also dubbed in Telugu under the same name and released on 27 March 2026. The film was distributed by Rasi Chidambaram's Sri Kumaran Films in Tamil Nadu. The overseas distribution rights of the film were acquired by Ayngaran International.


=== Home media ===
The post-theatrical digital and satellite rights were acquired by Netflix and Vijay Television. The film began streaming on Netflix from 16 April 2026.


== Reception ==


=== Critical response ===
Youth received positive reviews from critics. 
Avinash Ramachandran of Cinema Express and The New Indian Express gave 3/5 stars and wrote, "But just as most of us look at our own past with rose-tinted glasses, we can extend the same to Youth simply because we know that the outside world won’t be easy for these kids, and for now… let them have this".
Janani K of India Today gave 3/5 stars and wrote, "Youth is not a film that digs deep or asks difficult questions. It is a breezy, affectionate drama about teenagers who are unserious about life until life gets serious with them. It stumbles in places, relies on convenience in others, and lets a few jokes slide that it probably should not. But it strikes enough of the right notes — and finds enough genuine heart in the margins — to make it a worthwhile watch".
Anusha Sundar of OTTplay gave 2.5/5 stars and wrote, "With some strong performances, youthful music to keep things going, and some relatable comedy and moments, the film has enough to keep you engaged. But beyond that, the film is not free of loopholes and writing issues. The film is almost there, like a draft that needs one last edit before becoming a bound script. Youth is entertaining on the surface, lacking underneath".
Abhinav Subramanian of The Times of India gave 2/5 stars and wrote, "Given how easy it is for this territory to collapse into unwatchable cliche, Youth stays on the right side of that line for most of its runtime. It could have used twenty fewer minutes, though, and nothing of value would have been  lost".


== References ==


== External links ==
Youth at IMDb